# An Integrated Early Curative Approach

## Notes on Diet
 
### <ins>Millets:</ins>
Millets are found to be less inflammatory than other staple grains and to support immune health better, especially in the context of a Covid-19 prophylactic diet. **Dr. Khadar Vali recommends the consumption of one of the following 5 "Positive Millets" at least once a day while prophylaxing:**
**Foxtail millet (Tinai), Kodo millet (Varagu), Little millet (Saamai), Barnyard millet (Kuthiravaali in Tamil / Odalu in Telugu), Browntop millet (Pala pul in Tamil / Korralu in Telugu).**

Millet man Dr. Khadar Vali's recommended millet-based dietary regimen for health and prophylaxis:
   - [Millet Derived Flavonoids as Potential SARS-CoV-2 Main Protease Inhibitors: A Computational Approach; Abhisek Mishra et al.; ChemRxiv; August, 2020][1]

However, it may be good not to consume millets in excess as well (i.e., everyday in large quantities, especially when improperly cooked, as explained below) as they can cause stomach ache, bloating and constipation due to their high fibre content, and are also found to contain goitrogenic flavonoids that block iodine absorption and are linked to goitre. Millets, and especially pearl millet, also contain high amounts of oxalates that are unsuitable for those with kidney disease and can precipitate kidney stones. They also contain certain enzyme inhibitors and phytic acid, which are called anti-nutrients because they inhibit nutrient absorption unless proper cooking methods are practised. In addition, millets contain protease (trypsin / chymotrypsin) inhibitors, which inhibit enzymatic action to break down proteins and thereby reduce their absorption, as well as cause toxicity in the intestines, potentially leading to leaky gut. Darker millets are reported to contain more antinutrients.

**Semi-refined millet flour contains less of the antinutrient phytates and oxalates (as the bran contains a higher distribution of these antinutrients) and more bioavailability of iron and calcium, while retaining much of the nutrients. The protease inhibitors can be reduced greatly through soaking and sprouting millets for 5 days prior to consumption, and cooking them with steam or water, rather than dry heating. Another important method to reduce antinutrients in food is fermentation. However, protease inhibitors are also used as antiviral medication as they help block viral replication, and may be helpful as prophylactic if consumed in moderation.**
   - [Wellness Munch: How to enjoy millet benefits without any side effects; Sept, 2019][2]
   - [Nutrients, antinutrients & bioaccessible mineral content (invitro) of pearl millet as influenced by milling; Suma and Urooj; Journal of Food Science and Technology; Oct, 2011][3]
   - [Antinutritional factors in pearl millet grains: Phytate and goitrogens content variability and molecular characterization of genes involved in their pathways; Boncompagni et al.; PLoS One, June, 2018][4]
   - [Trypsin/chymotrypsin inhibitors from millets; T N Pattabiraman; Advances in experimental medicine andd biology; 1986][5]
   - [Effects of heat treatment and germination on trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitory activities in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) seeds; Mulimani and Vadiraj; Plant foods for human nutrition (Dordrecht, Netherlands);1996][6]
   - [draxe.com: Protease: The Enzyme that Makes Protein & Amino Acids Tick; Sept, 2018][7]
   - [draxe.com: 10 Antinutrients to Get Out of Your Diet … and Life; Feb, 2018][8]
   - [Nutrient and Antinutrient Changes in Finger Millet (Eleusine coracan) During Sprouting; S. Mbithi-Mwikya et al.; LWT - Food Science and Technology; Feb, 2000][9]
   - [healthymaster.in][10]

### <ins>Recipe for Ambali (sprouted, fermented millet porridge):</ins>

   - [Dr. Khadar Vali's recipe for millet / Sirudhaaniya porridge that minimizes the anti-nutrients in millets and maximizes bioavailability of the beneficial phytonutrients][11]

### <ins>Diet for Chronic Kidney Disease:</ins>
Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease should adapt the diet to their requirements with the advice of their consultant physician, as fruits and vegetables in large quantity may not be all suitable to their needs.
   - [renalteam.org][12]: [Kidney-Friendly Fruits and Vegetables][13]
   - [davita.com](https://www.davita.com/): A DaVita Dietitian's Top 15 Healthy Foods for People with Kidney Disease; DaVita® renal dietitian, Sara Colman, RD, CSR, CDE

### <ins>Simple and Effective Way of Vitamin D Supplementation in a Vegan Diet:</ins>
The renowned mycologist Dr. Paul Stamets discovered that the vitamin D levels in the Shiitake mushroom, deemed a superfood for its great benefits to health, soared from about 100 IU / 100 g to 46,000 IU / 100 g when sun-dried for 12 hours over two days, and moreover, that the stored mushrooms preserved significant amounts of the vitamin D2 when tested after an year. It was also discovered that the vitamin D thus produced was as bioavailable as D intake through nutraceutical supplements. (Note: When supplementing vitamin D, it is also important to supplement also with vitamin K2. Furthermore, concurrent Magnesium and Calcium supplementation are necessary to improve D absorption and reap the advantages to bone health, respectively.)
   - [Strong correlation between prevalence of severe vitamin D deficiency and population mortality rate from COVID-19 in Europe; Pugach & Pugach; Weiner Klinische Wochenschrift; April, 2021][14]
   - [Vitamin D3 and K2 and their potential contribution to reducing the COVID-19 mortality rate; Simon Goddek; International Journal of Infectious Diseases; Oct, 2020][15]
   - [fungi.com: Place Mushrooms in Sunlight to Get Your Vitamin D; Paul Stamets; Aug 16, 2012][16]
   - [A Review of Mushrooms as a Potential Source of Dietary Vitamin D; Glenn Cardwell; Nutrients; Oct 13, 2018][17]
   - [cookinglight.com: No One Gets Enough of This Depression-Fighting Vitamin, but a Crazy Mushroom Technique Could Change That- The term “magic mushroom” has just taken on a whole new meaning; Jennifer Kushnier; Dec 19, 2018][18]
   - [Calcium, vitamin D, vitamin K2, and magnesium supplementation and skeletal health; Anna Capozzi et al.; Maturitas; Oct, 2020][19]
   - [Role of Magnesium in Vitamin D Activation and Function; Anne Marie Uwitonze & Mohammed S Raazzaque; The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association; Mar 1, 2018][20]

## Notes on the Therapeutic Approach Suggested in the Early (Asymptomatic / Symptomatic) Treatment Phase 
 
1. The basic suggested diet plan for mitigating active Covid-19 infection integrates the highly evidence-based recommendations of acclaimed naturopath Dr. Biswaroop Roy Chowdhury, PhD- the DIP diet- and the orthogonal (i.e., mutually exclusive) and provenly effective recommendations of many physicians in holistic, traditional and nutritional medicine. It is proposed to adopt as much of this suggested regimen as is comfortably possible when administering self-care at home, and in the early asymptomatic or symptomatic phase of the illness, in order to mitigate the likelihood of the infection progressing to a more severe phase. In addition, there are excellent Ayurvedic, holistic and Integrative medical practitioners who have reported the use of novel natural or holistic therapies to achieve a 100 percent success in cure in their extensive clinical practice. A few of these doctors listed in this document include Dr. Biswaroop Roy Chowdhury (Pune), Drs. Sarang Phadke (Pune), Vikram Dravid, and several other physicians who offer the reportedly remarkable Haldi-30 therapy, and Dr. Swapna Reddy (Hyderabad).

2. As these recommendations of Ayurveda, Siddha (Nilavempu / Green chiretta), homeopathy, nutritional medicine and other holistic approaches (including Traditional Chinese Medicine) have been tested and proven efficacious as adjunct therapy to Standard Of Care therapy in outpatient or hospital settings, and as these remedies are effective for any influenza-like disease (especially with respiratory involvement), these simple treatments can be suggested in very safe, nontoxic doses, to be commenced as soon as possible after testing positive or at the earliest sign of symptom onset.

3. Even though the above holistic / herbal / nutritional therapies suggested have each been independently shown in clinical trials to significantly improve patient outcomes, especially when prescribed in early treatment protocols, it is still possible (though clinical trials suggest that it is not probable) that symptomatic infections may not begin to subside after 3 days of treatment. In this case, it is suggested here to add a highly effective and evidence-based but minimally interventive, allopathic protocol like The Zelenko Protocol and Fareed-Tyson Protocol, or FLCCC's very well researched I-MASK+ protocol to the therapy. Another effective option may be the highly evidence-based Fleming Protocol. Yet another treatment option may be the Ippocratic protocol, endorsed by hundreds or thousands of doctors in the EU. Yet another reliable approach might be incorporating the therapeutic strategies suggested by Dr. Shankara Chetty in his 8th Day Therapy, with marked similarities to the Ippocrate protocol. The 8th Day Therapy was one of the first highly successful repurposed allopathic protocols to emerge during the pandemic, proven extremely effective with thousands of outpatients in his residential clinic in South Africa, with not a single mortality in the first and second waves, according to reports of recent months.

4. The following informative website might help to assist the allopathic early treatment protocol adopted, if required. These sites list the most effective pharmaceutical interventions, as well as their rates of efficacy, derived by two different approaches. In the first case, a real-time analysis of a very large number of clinical trials of many popular treatment methods was reviewed. The great majority of these trials were Randomized Controlled Trials. In the second case, the Fleming Method, a patented systematic method of evaluating treatment outcomes was adopted in a sizeable collection of clinical trials across the world, where the method adopted in the trial permitted the physician complete freedom to apply his treatment of choice, using the Fleming Method to assess the differential negative or positive effect of the treatment.

   4.1. [COVID-19 early treatment][21]: real-time analysis of 1,081 studies.

   From these reviews, it would seem that the most effective allopathic interventions include the following therapies:
   - Androgen-suppressor Proxalutamide ([efficacy of 84 % in 10 early treatment and late treatment Randomized Controlled Trials][22], including a trial with patients on ventilators)
   - [Nutraceutical Iota Carrageenan][23], active ingredient in [Betadine Nasal Spray][24] (extract from red seaweed) (effective against a variety of respiratory viruses, [80 % efficacy demonstrated][25] by [1 study][26] in preventing asymptomatic early infection from progressing to the symptomatic phase)
   - Nutraceutical Quercetin (nutrient abundant in several herbs, including green tea) ([high efficacy of about 80 % demonstrated in 12 early treatment studies][27])
   - Plant-based integrative medicine, whole seed Nigella sativa / Black cumin ([efficacy of 67 % in about 12 clinical trials, including 11 RCTs][28])
   - Nutraceutical Curcumin (extract from turmeric) ([efficacy of about 60 % in 24 early and late treatment clinical trials, including 21 RCTs][29])
   - Melatonin ([efficacy of about 64 % demonstrated in 17 clinical trials, including 10 RCTs][30])
   - Monoclonal Antibodies Casirivimab / Imdevimab ([efficacy ranging from 38 % to 98 % in 4 clinical trials][31])
   - Povidone-Iodine, the active ingredient in Iodine Nasal Spray ([efficacy of 63 % in 19 clinical trials, including 2 RCTs][32])

   The FLCCC protocols, including I-MASK+ protocol recommended for early outpatient treatment, and I-MATH+ protocol recommended for advanced Covid care in hospital settings, recruit all these recommended medications, among others.

   4.2. [Protocol Evolved By The Fleming Method][33]: Treatment Considerations Based Upon the Best Available Evidence | Research Results

5. With most (or all) of the allopathic treatment modalities, except perhaps the Zelenko early treatment protocol, it would be necessary to connect with a trained physician who can guide through the protocol and prescribe the necessary treatments. Helpful Information Related to Procuring Ivermectin and HCQ in the USA and other countries:
   - (USA, Sept 24, 2021) [Find a doctor][34] who will prescribe Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquine and early outpatient treatments for Covid-19
   - (USA, Sept 28, 2021) [How to Get Ivermectin in the US][35]: Pharmacies
   - (In various countries, Sept 6, 2021) [Find a doctor][36] who will prescribe Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquine and early outpatient treatments for Covid-19				
													
													
## Diet: 1 to 3 days

| DAY 1| DAY 2| DAY 3|		
|:--------|:-------|:-------|																			
| **<ins>The N.I.C.E. protocol for mild / acute Covid</ins>**<br><br>N.I.C.E. Three-Step Flu Diet<br>N.I.C.E. helpline for free consultations and guidance:<br>+91 8587059169	| **<ins>The N.I.C.E. protocol for mild / acute Covid</ins>**<br><br>N.I.C.E. Three-Step Flu Diet<br>N.I.C.E. helpline for free consultations and guidance:<br>+91 8587059169			| **<ins>The N.I.C.E. protocol for mild / acute Covid</ins>**<br><br>N.I.C.E. Three-Step Flu Diet<br>N.I.C.E. helpline for free consultations and guidance:<br>+91 8587059169			|
| | | |
| **<ins>Holistic techniques to reduce the discomfort of breathlessness:</ins>**<br><br>1. (NICE) A hand-held / table fan held in front of the patient's face for a few minutes<br><br>2. (Integrative medicine) Prone ventilation<br><br>3. (Homeopathy) Q Aspidosperma, **to be adopted after consultation with a homeopathic physician**<br><br>4. (Ayurveda, Indigenous medicine) Camphor + Ajwain + Eucalyptus oil Potli	| **<ins>Holistic techniques to reduce the discomfort of breathlessness:</ins>**<br><br>1. (NICE) A hand-held / table fan held in front of the patient's face for a few minutes<br><br>2. (Integrative medicine) Prone ventilation<br><br>3. (Homeopathy) Q Aspidosperma, **to be adopted after consultation with a homeopathic physician**<br><br>4. (Ayurveda, Indigenous medicine) Camphor + Ajwain + Eucalyptus oil Potli<br><br><br>**Seek the expert guidance of NICE (Network of Influenza Care Experts), contact # +91 8587059169, if there is no improvement in symptoms by Day 2 after commencement of the regimen.**	| **<ins>Holistic techniques to reduce the discomfort of breathlessness:</ins>**<br><br>1. (NICE) A hand-held / table fan held in front of the patient's face for a few minutes<br><br>2. (Integrative medicine) Prone ventilation<br><br>3. (Homeopathy) Q Aspidosperma, **to be adopted after consultation with a homeopathic physician**<br><br>4. (Ayurveda, Indigenous medicine) Camphor + Ajwain + Eucalyptus oil Potli<br><br><br>**Seek the expert guidance of NICE (Network of Influenza Care Experts), contact # +91 8587059169, if there is no improvement in symptoms by Day 2 after commencement of the regimen.** |
| | | |
| **At or before 5:30 AM**<br>(Homeopathy) Dr. Khadar Vali's generic homeopathic regimen for boosting immune response with Arsenicum album 200, Bryonia alba 200, Camphor 200 for symptomatic infections (**N.B.:** *The Homeopathic protocol should only be adopted under the guidance of an experienced and knowledgeable physician.*):<br><br>**<ins>Schedule and dosage:<ins>**<br>Take 3 pills of Ars alb 200 C in half a cup of water. If there are respiratory symptoms and a high fever, also have 3 pills each of Bryonia alba 200 and Camphor 200 along with the Arsenicum album 200. For children, the dosage would be proportionately smaller, say 1-2 pills each, depending on age and weight.<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>**<br>1. Homeopathic medication must be consumed as far as possible **away from meals (i.e., at least half an hour, and preferably 1 hour, before a main meal).**<br>2. Of the 3 medications used in Dr. Khadar Vali's treatment regimen, **Bryonia alba 200 C** is especially indicated when [respiratory and abdominal symptoms][37] are present and is used also to effectively treat pneumonia, and **Camphor 200 C** is recommended when **fever** is a prominent symptom of the infection. **Arsenicum album 30 C** and **200 C** have been widely used with remarkable and demonstrable efficacy by the alternate healthcare community in Kerala in both prophylaxing against Covid-19 as well as the treatment of early symptoms, with dyspnea. | **At or before 5:30 AM**<br>(Homeopathy) Dr. Khadar Vali's generic homeopathic regimen for boosting immune response with Arsenicum album 200, Bryonia alba 200, Camphor 200 for symptomatic infections (**N.B.:** *The Homeopathic protocol should only be adopted under the guidance of an experienced and knowledgeable physician.*):<br><br>**<ins>Schedule and dosage:</ins>**<br>Take 3 pills of Ars alb 200 C in half a cup of water. If there are respiratory symptoms and a high fever, also have 3 pills each of Bryonia alba 200 and Camphor 200 along with the Arsenicum album 200. For children, the dosage would be proportionately smaller, say 1-2 pills each, depending on age and weight.<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>**<br>1. Homeopathic medication must be consumed as far as possible **away from meals (i.e., at least half an hour, and preferably 1 hour, before a main meal).**<br>2. Of the 3 medications used in Dr. Khadar Vali's treatment regimen, **Bryonia alba 200 C** is especially indicated when [respiratory and abdominal symptoms][37] are present and is used also to effectively treat pneumonia, and **Camphor 200 C** is recommended when **fever** is a prominent symptom of the infection. **Arsenicum album 30 C** and **200 C** have been widely used with remarkable and demonstrable efficacy by the alternate healthcare community in Kerala in both prophylaxing against Covid-19 as well as the treatment of early symptoms, with dyspnea.		  | **At or before 5:30 AM**<br>(Homeopathy) Dr. Khadar Vali's generic homeopathic regimen for boosting immune response with Arsenicum album 200, Bryonia alba 200, Camphor 200 for symptomatic infections (**N.B.:** *The Homeopathic protocol should only be adopted under the guidance of an experienced and knowledgeable physician.*):<br><br>**<ins>Schedule and dosage:</ins>**<br>Take 3 pills of Ars alb 200 C in half a cup of water. If there are respiratory symptoms and a high fever, also have 3 pills each of Bryonia alba 200 and Camphor 200 along with the Arsenicum album 200. For children, the dosage would be proportionately smaller, say 1-2 pills each, depending on age and weight.<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>**<br>1. Homeopathic medication must be consumed as far as possible **away from meals (i.e., at least half an hour, and preferably 1 hour, before a main meal).**<br>2. Of the 3 medications used in Dr. Khadar Vali's treatment regimen, **Bryonia alba 200 C** is especially indicated when [respiratory and abdominal symptoms][37] are present and is used also to effectively treat pneumonia, and **Camphor 200 C** is recommended when **fever** is a prominent symptom of the infection. **Arsenicum album 30 C** and **200 C** have been widely used with remarkable and demonstrable efficacy by the alternate healthcare community in Kerala in both prophylaxing against Covid-19 as well as the treatment of early symptoms, with dyspnea. |
| | | |	
| **About 6:00 AM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation & Sunbathing</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][38]: Perform throat gargling with a glass of warm water with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt. (Optional)** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][39] useful to [perform][40] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or **[Jalaneti][41], with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.**<br><br>2. **Start sunbathing** (with minimal / [light, preferably white-coloured cotton attire][42]) and sungazing (no more than 20 seconds at a stretch). | **About 6:00 AM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation & Sunbathing</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][38]: Perform throat gargling with a glass of warm water with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt. (Optional)** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][39] useful to [perform][40] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or **[Jalaneti][41], with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.**<br><br>2. **Start sunbathing** (with minimal / [light, preferably white-coloured cotton attire][42]) and sungazing (no more than 20 seconds at a stretch).	| **About 6:00 AM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation & Sunbathing</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][38]: Perform throat gargling with a glass of warm water with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt. (Optional)** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][39] useful to [perform][40] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or **[Jalaneti][41], with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.**<br><br>2. **Start sunbathing** (with minimal / [light, preferably white-coloured cotton attire][42]) and sungazing (no more than 20 seconds at a stretch).		|
| | | |
| **6:15 - 6:30 AM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Early morning regimen to mitigate infection and inflammation in upper respiratory tract-</ins> Sniffing powdered dry ginger, Alternate breathing & Turmeric-pepper decoction:<br><br>1. **Sniff one pinch each of dried ginger** / Chukku / Saunth alternately in each nostril.<br><br>2. After 10 minutes, perform **Anuloma Viloma Praanayaama for 5 minutes.**<br><br>3. After the completion of Praanayaama, consume **turmeric-pepper Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction)**: Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of turmeric and 2 pinches of black pepper in a glass of water for 5 minutes. Cover and let the decoction cool. Add jaggery and 1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil, and sip it.<br><br><br>(Optional) (AYUSH) [<ins>Anu taila</ins>][43] ([Nasya][44]):<br><br>Put **4 drops of Patanjali's Anu taila or even simple organic sesame or coconut oil or pure cow's ghee in each nostril.** This is performed at least an hour before the next meal.	| **6:15 - 6:30 AM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Early morning regimen to mitigate infection and inflammation in upper respiratory tract-</ins> Sniffing powdered dry ginger, Alternate breathing & Turmeric-pepper decoction:<br><br>1. **Sniff one pinch each of dried ginger** / Chukku / Saunth alternately in each nostril.<br><br>2. After 10 minutes, perform **Anuloma Viloma Praanayaama for 5 minutes.**<br><br>3. After the completion of Praanayaama, consume **turmeric-pepper Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction)**: Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of turmeric and 2 pinches of black pepper in a glass of water for 5 minutes. Cover and let the decoction cool. Add jaggery and 1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil, and sip it.<br><br><br>(Optional) (AYUSH) [<ins>Anu taila</ins>][43] ([Nasya][44]):<br><br>Put **4 drops of Patanjali's Anu taila or even simple organic sesame or coconut oil or pure cow's ghee in each nostril.** This is performed at least an hour before the next meal.| **6:15 - 6:30 AM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Early morning regimen to mitigate infection and inflammation in upper respiratory tract-</ins> Sniffing powdered dry ginger, Alternate breathing & Turmeric-pepper decoction:<br><br>1. **Sniff one pinch each of dried ginger** / Chukku / Saunth alternately in each nostril.<br><br>2. After 10 minutes, perform **Anuloma Viloma Praanayaama for 5 minutes.**<br><br>3. After the completion of Praanayaama, consume **turmeric-pepper Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction)**: Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of turmeric and 2 pinches of black pepper in a glass of water for 5 minutes. Cover and let the decoction cool. Add jaggery and 1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil, and sip it.<br><br><br>(Optional) (AYUSH) [<ins>Anu taila</ins>][43] ([Nasya][44]):<br><br>Put **4 drops of Patanjali's Anu taila or even simple organic sesame or coconut oil or pure cow's ghee in each nostril.** This is performed at least an hour before the next meal.|
| | | |
| **7:30 AM**<br><br>If Peepal leaves can be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(NICE) [Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves][45], **only for patients with breathing difficulty**<br><br><br>Alternatively, if Peepal leaves cannot be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(Siddha) **<ins>Kadha or Kashaaya of [Nilavembu][46] / Kiratatikta / Chiretta + [Kapasura][47] (i.e., Kapasura / Nilavembu Kudineer):</ins>**<br><br>**Consume quarter to half a tumbler, for adults (or about 60 ml) of Kapasura + Nilavembu Kudineer**, prepared by boiling a teaspoon each of [Nilavembu][48] and [Kapasura][49] **herbal powders** (store-bought) in 2 tumblers of water and reduced (through boiling) to half a tumbler. The dosage for children would be proportionately lower, ranging from a teaspoon (about 5 ml) to a quarter glass (30 ml) for adolescents.		| **7:30 AM**<br><br>If Peepal leaves can be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(NICE) [Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves][45], **only for patients with breathing difficulty**<br><br><br>Alternatively, if Peepal leaves cannot be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(Siddha) **<ins>Kadha or Kashaaya of [Nilavembu][46] / Kiratatikta / Chiretta + [Kapasura][47] (i.e., Kapasura / Nilavembu Kudineer):</ins>**<br><br>**Consume quarter to half a tumbler, for adults (or about 60 ml) of Kapasura + Nilavembu Kudineer**, prepared by boiling a teaspoon each of [Nilavembu][48] and [Kapasura][49] **herbal powders** (store-bought) in 2 tumblers of water and reduced (through boiling) to half a tumbler. The dosage for children would be proportionately lower, ranging from a teaspoon (about 5 ml) to a quarter glass (30 ml) for adolescents.	| **7:30 AM**<br><br>If Peepal leaves can be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(NICE) [Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves][45], **only for patients with breathing difficulty**<br><br><br>Alternatively, if Peepal leaves cannot be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(Siddha) **<ins>Kadha or Kashaaya of [Nilavembu][46] / Kiratatikta / Chiretta + [Kapasura][47] (i.e., Kapasura / Nilavembu Kudineer):</ins>**<br><br>**Consume quarter to half a tumbler, for adults (or about 60 ml) of Kapasura + Nilavembu Kudineer**, prepared by boiling a teaspoon each of [Nilavembu][48] and [Kapasura][49] **herbal powders** (store-bought) in 2 tumblers of water and reduced (through boiling) to half a tumbler. The dosage for children would be proportionately lower, ranging from a teaspoon (about 5 ml) to a quarter glass (30 ml) for adolescents.	|		
| | | |
| **8:00 AM**<br><br>1. (NICE) **<ins>Anti-inflammatory [green juice][50] and Dr. Eapen Koshy's supplementary naturopathic alkalizing (anti-inflammatory) regimen:</ins>**<br><br>- **Green juice**, lukewarm or at room temperature, prepared from cucumber / ash gourd / bottle gourd / [plantain pith or stem][51] / [mint leaves][52] / [wheatgrass][53] / [Moringa leaves / corriander leaves][54], in rotation, and with [Amla][55], fresh lemon juice and a teaspoon of honey for taste. Naturopathy importantly utilizes this therapy [to counter systemic inflammation.][56]<br><br>- (Dr. EK) **Immune-supportive ("alkalizing") superfoods:**<br>Chew and eat a 1 cm long piece of **raw fresh ginger** along with the skin, and 2-3 **raw fresh Amla** / Indian gooseberries. The ginger and Amla can be dipped in a [little raw honey][57] to milden the taste, if needed. Raw peeled **garlic**, 1-2 cloves, and **raw slices of lemon**, along with the rind, too can be eaten to reduce inflammation and support immunity.<br><br><br>2. (Allopathy, Nutritional / Integrative medicine) **<ins>Nutraceuticals to support immunity:</ins>**<br>It is suggested to take a neutraceutical supplement like [Immuneed][58] or [oral vitamin C + Zinc][59] with lukewarm water. | **8:00 AM**<br><br>1. (NICE) **<ins>Anti-inflammatory [green juice][50] and Dr. Eapen Koshy's supplementary naturopathic alkalizing (anti-inflammatory) regimen:</ins>**<br><br>- **Green juice**, lukewarm or at room temperature, prepared from cucumber / ash gourd / bottle gourd / [plantain pith or stem][51] / [mint leaves][52] / [wheatgrass][53] / [Moringa leaves / corriander leaves][54], in rotation, and with [Amla][55], fresh lemon juice and a teaspoon of honey for taste. Naturopathy importantly utilizes this therapy [to counter systemic inflammation.][56]<br><br>- (Dr. EK) **Immune-supportive ("alkalizing") superfoods:**<br>Chew and eat a 1 cm long piece of **raw fresh ginger** along with the skin, and 2-3 **raw fresh Amla** / Indian gooseberries. The ginger and Amla can be dipped in a [little raw honey][57] to milden the taste, if needed. Raw peeled **garlic**, 1-2 cloves, and **raw slices of lemon**, along with the rind, too can be eaten to reduce inflammation and support immunity.<br><br><br>2. (Allopathy, Nutritional / Integrative medicine) **<ins>Nutraceuticals to support immunity:</ins>**<br>It is suggested to take a neutraceutical supplement like [Immuneed][58] or [oral vitamin C + Zinc][59] with lukewarm water.| **8:00 AM**<br><br>1. (NICE) **<ins>Anti-inflammatory [green juice][50] and Dr. Eapen Koshy's supplementary naturopathic alkalizing (anti-inflammatory) regimen:</ins>**<br><br>- **Green juice**, lukewarm or at room temperature, prepared from cucumber / ash gourd / bottle gourd / [plantain pith or stem][51] / [mint leaves][52] / [wheatgrass][53] / [Moringa leaves / corriander leaves][54], in rotation, and with [Amla][55], fresh lemon juice and a teaspoon of honey for taste. Naturopathy importantly utilizes this therapy [to counter systemic inflammation.][56]<br><br>- (Dr. EK) **Immune-supportive ("alkalizing") superfoods:**<br>Chew and eat a 1 cm long piece of **raw fresh ginger** along with the skin, and 2-3 **raw fresh Amla** / Indian gooseberries. The ginger and Amla can be dipped in a [little raw honey][57] to milden the taste, if needed. Raw peeled **garlic**, 1-2 cloves, and **raw slices of lemon**, along with the rind, too can be eaten to reduce inflammation and support immunity.<br><br><br>2. (Allopathy, Nutritional / Integrative medicine) **<ins>Nutraceuticals to support immunity:</ins>**<br><br>- <ins>If the symptoms have reduced by Day 3,</ins><br>then continue to take a generic supplement like [Immuneed][58] or [oral vitamin C + Zinc][59] with lukewarm water.<br><br>- <ins>If symptoms have not been mitigated by Day 3,</ins><br>then begin the therapeutic supplements recommended in the early treatment prescribed by the Zelenko Protocol or FLCCC's I-MASK+ protocol:<br>**I-MASK+ Immune Fortifying / Supportive Therapy (with links to FLCCC-recommended products):**<br>**Vitamin D3**: 1000–3000 IU / day. ([Amazon][60])<br>**Vitamin C**: 500 - 1,000 mg BID (twice daily) ([Amazon][61]) ([OneDayMD][62])<br>**Quercetin**: 250 mg daily. ([Amazon][63]) ([Aesthetics Advisor][64])<br>**Zinc**: 30 - 40 mg / day (elemental zinc). Zinc lozenges are preferred. ([Amazon][65]) ([OneDayMD][66])<br><br>Alternatively, the manufacturer "dose + immunity" [offers a combined supplement called "A dose of immunity"][67], a highly rated immune-supportive supplement on Amazon **containing all these components and Echinacea.** |
| | | |
| **9:00 AM**<br><br>1. (NICE) [Fresh tender coconut water][68]:<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water.**<br><br>2. **Can stop sunbathing**, which was begun at 6:00 AM, at the end of the 3-hour phototherapy duration.<br><br>3. (Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion.**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][69] in the living space in the morning.			| **9:00 AM**<br><br>1. (NICE) [Fresh tender coconut water][68]:<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water.**<br><br>2. **Can stop sunbathing**, which was begun at 6:00 AM, at the end of the 3-hour phototherapy duration.<br><br>3. (Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion.**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][69] in the living space in the morning.	| **9:00 AM**<br><br>1. (NICE) [Fresh tender coconut water][68]:<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water.**<br><br>2. (Integrative medicine, Naturopathy) If symptoms have not begun to mitigate by Day 3,<br>begin the effective and evidence-based Nigella sativa therapy:<br>**Take 1 g / [kg of body weight] of honey and 80 mg / [kg of body weight] of Nigella sativa. The honey is first dissolved in 1 large cup or 250 mL of warm water.**<br><br>**Note**: A tablespoon of honey weighs approximately 21 g. A metric teaspoon of Black cumin seeds weighs about 5 g. **Therefore an adult weighing 60 kg would need to consume about 3 tablespoons of honey dissolved in a large cup of water, and about 1 metric teaspoon of Nigella sativa in this dose.**<br><br>3. **Can stop sunbathing**, which was begun at 6:00 AM, at the end of the 3-hour phototherapy duration.<br><br>4. (Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][69] in the living space in the morning.		|
| | | |		
| **9:30 AM**<br><br>If fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya can be sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya or Kadha:**<br><br>Take Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), prepared as follows:<br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya could not be sourced and prepared,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of **Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Swasari with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour before fruitarian breakfast. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**		| **9:30 AM**<br><br>If fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya can be sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya or Kadha:**<br><br>Take Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), prepared as follows:<br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya could not be sourced and prepared,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of **Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Swasari with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour before fruitarian breakfast. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**| **9:30 AM**<br><br>If fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya can be sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya or Kadha:**<br><br>Take Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), prepared as follows:<br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya could not be sourced and prepared,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of **Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Swasari with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour before fruitarian breakfast. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.** |
| | | |
| **10:30 AM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][70]<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. (body weight in kg) / 40 glasses**		| **10:30 AM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][70]<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. (body weight in kg) / 40 glasses**	| **10:30 AM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][70]<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. (body weight in kg) / 40 glasses**	|
| | | |
| **11:30 AM - 12:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- If asymptomatic, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br><br>- If symptomatic, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q**:<br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice<br><br>Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Coronil with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour after the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.** | **11:30 AM - 12:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- If asymptomatic, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br><br>- If symptomatic, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q**:<br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice<br><br>Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Coronil with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour after the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**| **11:30 AM - 12:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- If asymptomatic, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br><br>- If symptomatic, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q**:<br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice<br><br>Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Coronil with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour after the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**|		
| | | |
| **12:15 PM**<br><br>(NICE) Keep **1/4 teaspoonful of fresh or dry ginger (Chukku or Saunth) in the mouth**, let it dissolve there, and then swallow.		| **12:15 PM**<br><br>(NICE) Keep **1/4 teaspoonful of fresh or dry ginger (Chukku or Saunth) in the mouth**, let it dissolve there, and then swallow.| **12:15 PM**<br><br>(NICE) Keep **1/4 teaspoonful of fresh or dry ginger (Chukku or Saunth) in the mouth**, let it dissolve there, and then swallow.<br><br>(AYUSH) In addition, if symptoms have not decreased by Day 3, one 500 mg tablet of AYUSH64 can be taken.			|
| | | |
| **1:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) Consume **Turmeric-Pepper Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction):<br><br>**Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of Turmeric and [2 pinches of Black pepper][71] in a glass of water for 5 minutes.** Cover and let the decoction cool. Add **jaggery** and [1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil][72], and sip it.			| **1:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) Consume **Turmeric-Pepper Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction):<br><br>**Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of Turmeric and [2 pinches of Black pepper][71] in a glass of water for 5 minutes.** Cover and let the decoction cool. Add **jaggery** and [1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil][72], and sip it.	| **1:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) Consume **Turmeric-Pepper Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction):<br><br>**Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of Turmeric and [2 pinches of Black pepper][71] in a glass of water for 5 minutes.** Cover and let the decoction cool. Add **jaggery** and [1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil][72], and sip it.	|
| | | |		
| **2:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][73]<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses**	| **2:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][73]<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses**| **2:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][73]<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses**|
| | | |
| **2:30 - 3:30 PM**<br><br>**@ 3:00 PM (NICE) <ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- **If asymptomatic**, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br><br>- **If symptomatic**, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q:**<br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice<br><br><br>Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted instead,<br><br>**@ 2:30 PM & 3:30 PM** <ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing **a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets of Divya Swasari (for adults, 15+ years) with lukewarm water, half an hour before (@ 2:30 PM) and 2 tablets of Divya Coronil after (@ 3:30 PM) the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**		| **2:30 - 3:30 PM**<br><br>**@ 3:00 PM (NICE) <ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- **If asymptomatic**, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br><br>- **If symptomatic**, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q:**<br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice<br><br><br>Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted instead,<br><br>**@ 2:30 PM & 3:30 PM** <ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing **a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets of Divya Swasari (for adults, 15+ years) with lukewarm water, half an hour before (@ 2:30 PM) and 2 tablets of Divya Coronil after (@ 3:30 PM) the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**	| **2:30 - 3:30 PM**<br><br>**@ 3:00 PM (NICE)**<br><br>**If there is no significant decrease of symptoms by the 3rd day, take Fruit / Citrus juice:**<br><br>- **If asymptomatic**, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br>- **If symptomatic**, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q:**<br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice<br><br><br>**If there is significant decrease of symptoms by the 3rd day, take cucumber + tomato salad in the quantity Q:**<br><br>**Q = [Body weight (in kg)] X 5 grams of cucumber and tomatoes**<br><br>For example, if the body weight is 60 kg, then (60 X 5 =) 300 grams of cucumber and tomatoes should be consumed. In many cases, patients may start feeling better and their fever improved, and they would have regained some strength.<br><br><br>*Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted instead,*<br><br>**@ 2:30 PM & 3:30 PM** <ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing **a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets of Divya Swasari (for adults, 15+ years) with lukewarm water, half an hour before (@ 2:30 PM) and 2 tablets of Divya Coronil after (@ 3:30 PM) the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**		|
| | | |
| **4:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Giloy and Tulasi can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Giloy + Tulasi **Kashaaya or Kadha:</ins>**<br><br>**Take Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), **prepared as follows:**<br><br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled for 5 minutes in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br><br>*Alternatively*, **Patanjali's Coronil therapy can be adopted, comprising two preparations of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi, consumed half an hour before and after the main meals, as described next to meals regimen.**		| **4:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Giloy and Tulasi can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Giloy + Tulasi **Kashaaya or Kadha:</ins>**<br><br>**Take Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), **prepared as follows:**<br><br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled for 5 minutes in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br><br>*Alternatively*, **Patanjali's Coronil therapy can be adopted, comprising two preparations of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi, consumed half an hour before and after the main meals, as described next to meals regimen.**	| **4:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Giloy and Tulasi can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Giloy + Tulasi **Kashaaya or Kadha:</ins>**<br><br>**Take Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), **prepared as follows:**<br><br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled for 5 minutes in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br><br>*Alternatively*, **Patanjali's Coronil therapy can be adopted, comprising two preparations of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi, consumed half an hour before and after the main meals, as described next to meals regimen.**<br><br>(AYUSH) In addition, if symptoms have not decreased by Day 3, one 500 mg tablet of AYUSH64 can be taken. |		
| | | |
| **4:30 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Madaar / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Massage with Madaar / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea leaves and Mustard oil for cough symptom:</ins>**<br><br>Pieces of Madaar / Aak / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis Gigantea / Crown flower **leaves dipped in mustard oil should be heated till they become lukewarm and to be used for a light massage on chest, back and feet.** The treatment should be **continued until the cough symptom subsides.**<br><br><br>Alternatively, if the leaves of Erukku / Madaar could not be locally sourced / prepared,<br><br>[(Ayurveda, Naturopathy)][74] **<ins>Mustard and Camphor oil massage for asthma and cough:</ins>**<br>Massage the entire chest region gently with a [little warm mustard oil, heated with powdered edible camphor][75], to reduce cough symptom.	| **4:30 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Madaar / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Massage with Madaar / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea leaves and Mustard oil for cough symptom:</ins>**<br><br>Pieces of Madaar / Aak / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis Gigantea / Crown flower **leaves dipped in mustard oil should be heated till they become lukewarm and to be used for a light massage on chest, back and feet.** The treatment should be **continued until the cough symptom subsides.**<br><br><br>Alternatively, if the leaves of Erukku / Madaar could not be locally sourced / prepared,<br><br>[(Ayurveda, Naturopathy)][74] **<ins>Mustard and Camphor oil massage for asthma and cough:</ins>**<br>Massage the entire chest region gently with a [little warm mustard oil, heated with powdered edible camphor][75], to reduce cough symptom.| **4:30 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Madaar / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Massage with Madaar / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea leaves and Mustard oil for cough symptom:</ins>**<br><br>Pieces of Madaar / Aak / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis Gigantea / Crown flower **leaves dipped in mustard oil should be heated till they become lukewarm and to be used for a light massage on chest, back and feet.** The treatment should be **continued until the cough symptom subsides.**<br><br><br>Alternatively, if the leaves of Erukku / Madaar could not be locally sourced / prepared,<br><br>[(Ayurveda, Naturopathy)][74] **<ins>Mustard and Camphor oil massage for asthma and cough:</ins>**<br>Massage the entire chest region gently with a [little warm mustard oil, heated with powdered edible camphor][75], to reduce cough symptom. |
| | | |
| **5:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][76]<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses**		| **5:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][76]<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses**	| **5:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][76]<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses**<br><br>2. (Integrative medicine, Naturopathy) *If symptoms have not begun to mitigate by Day 3,*<br>**begin the effective and evidence-based Nigella sativa therapy:**<br>**Take 1 g / [kg of body weight] of honey and 80 mg / [kg of body weight] of Nigella sativa. The honey is first dissolved in 1 large cup or 250 mL of warm water.**<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>** A tablespoon of honey weighs approximately 21 g. A metric teaspoon of Black cumin seeds weighs about 5 g. **Therefore an adult weighing 60 kg would need to consume about 3 tablespoons of honey dissolved in a large cup of water, and about 1 metric teaspoon of Nigella sativa in this dose.** |
| | | |	
| **6:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- If Asymptomatic OR if Vasaarishtam or Vasa / Adusa / Adhatoda leaf juice is being consumed subsequently in the evenings:<br><br>Take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, [of any seasonal fruits that are not sour in taste][77], **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br><br>- If Symptomatic AND if Vasaarishtam or Vasa / Adusa / Adhatoda leaf juice is NOT being consumed later in the evening:<br><br>Take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q:**<br><br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice			| **6:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- If Asymptomatic OR if Vasaarishtam or Vasa / Adusa / Adhatoda leaf juice is being consumed subsequently in the evenings:<br><br>Take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, [of any seasonal fruits that are not sour in taste][77], **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br><br>- If Symptomatic AND if Vasaarishtam or Vasa / Adusa / Adhatoda leaf juice is NOT being consumed later in the evening:<br><br>Take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q:**<br><br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice| **6:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- If Asymptomatic OR if Vasaarishtam or Vasa / Adusa / Adhatoda leaf juice is being consumed subsequently in the evenings:<br><br>Take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, [of any seasonal fruits that are not sour in taste][77], **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br><br>- If Symptomatic AND if Vasaarishtam or Vasa / Adusa / Adhatoda leaf juice is NOT being consumed later in the evening:<br><br>Take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q:**<br><br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice |
| | | |
| **7:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda can be locally sourced and prepared, AND especially if there is respiratory involvement or hypoxia:<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut juice:</ins>**<br><br>**3-4 tender leaves of Adusa (Justicia Adhatoda), a small cut piece of ginger** (not more than 1 cm in length), and **5 leaves of Tulasi manually crushed and juice mixed with 3 drops of honey**<br><br>**Pregnant and lactating mothers, young children and diabetics are advised to consult an Ayurvedic physician before consuming this medicine.**<br><br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda cannot be locally sourced and prepared, AND if there are respiratory symptoms:<br><br>(AYUSH, Ayurveda) [<ins>Vasavaleha</ins>][78], **recommended to be taken after consultation with Ayurvedic physician:**<br>**10 g of Vasavaleha can be consumed with warm water**, [preferably on the advice of an Ayurvedic physician.][79] [Overdosage should be avoided, and pregnant and lactating women, young children and diabetics are advised to consult with a physician about consuming this medication. Diabetics can have Vasavaleha only if their diabetes is under control.][80]		               | **7:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda can be locally sourced and prepared, AND especially if there is respiratory involvement or hypoxia:<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut juice:</ins>**<br><br>**3-4 tender leaves of Adusa (Justicia Adhatoda), a small cut piece of ginger** (not more than 1 cm in length), and **5 leaves of Tulasi manually crushed and juice mixed with 3 drops of honey**<br><br>**Pregnant and lactating mothers, young children and diabetics are advised to consult an Ayurvedic physician before consuming this medicine.**<br><br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda cannot be locally sourced and prepared, AND if there are respiratory symptoms:<br><br>(AYUSH, Ayurveda) [<ins>Vasavaleha</ins>][78], **recommended to be taken after consultation with Ayurvedic physician:**<br>**10 g of Vasavaleha can be consumed with warm water**, [preferably on the advice of an Ayurvedic physician.][79] [Overdosage should be avoided, and pregnant and lactating women, young children and diabetics are advised to consult with a physician about consuming this medication. Diabetics can have Vasavaleha only if their diabetes is under control.][80]	                        | **7:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda can be locally sourced and prepared, AND especially if there is respiratory involvement or hypoxia:<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut juice:</ins>**<br><br>**3-4 tender leaves of Adusa (Justicia Adhatoda), a small cut piece of ginger** (not more than 1 cm in length), and **5 leaves of Tulasi manually crushed and juice mixed with 3 drops of honey**<br><br>**Pregnant and lactating mothers, young children and diabetics are advised to consult an Ayurvedic physician before consuming this medicine.**<br><br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda cannot be locally sourced and prepared, AND if there are respiratory symptoms:<br><br>(AYUSH, Ayurveda) [<ins>Vasavaleha</ins>][78], **recommended to be taken after consultation with Ayurvedic physician:**<br>**10 g of Vasavaleha can be consumed with warm water**, [preferably on the advice of an Ayurvedic physician.][79] [Overdosage should be avoided, and pregnant and lactating women, young children and diabetics are advised to consult with a physician about consuming this medication. Diabetics can have Vasavaleha only if their diabetes is under control.][80]	|
| | | |
| **8:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Peepal / Aswattha / Sacred fig / Arayaal / Arasamaram / Ficus religiosa can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves</ins>][81], **only for patients with breathing difficulty:**<br><br>Boil **cut pieces of Peepal leaves in about a glass of water until the water is reduced to about half a glass. Filter** the water and drink. For severe breathing problems, use **Peepal bark** instead of leaves and repeat every hour.			                | **8:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Peepal / Aswattha / Sacred fig / Arayaal / Arasamaram / Ficus religiosa can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves</ins>][81], **only for patients with breathing difficulty:**<br><br>Boil **cut pieces of Peepal leaves in about a glass of water until the water is reduced to about half a glass. Filter** the water and drink. For severe breathing problems, use **Peepal bark** instead of leaves and repeat every hour.               | **8:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Peepal / Aswattha / Sacred fig / Arayaal / Arasamaram / Ficus religiosa can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves</ins>][81], **only for patients with breathing difficulty:**<br><br>Boil **cut pieces of Peepal leaves in about a glass of water until the water is reduced to about half a glass. Filter** the water and drink. For severe breathing problems, use **Peepal bark** instead of leaves and repeat every hour. |	
| | | |
| **8 - 9 PM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation, Steam inhalation & Relaxing bedtime banana Kashaya</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][82]: Perform throat gargling with **a glass of warm water** with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt.** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][83] useful to [perform][84] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or [Jalaneti][85], with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.<br><br>2. [Steam inhalation][86]: (AYUSH) **Perform steam inhalation with water containing a few drops of eucalyptus oil, turmeric, mint leaves and / or Carom seeds / Ajwain. (Optional)** (Dr. SR) [Halin Drops][87] could be added to the water used for steaming.<br><br>3. [Banana Kashaaya][88] **for a more restful sleep:** Prepare the banana Kashaya by **boiling banana in water along with the peel.** Sip the banana Kashaaya and go to sleep.<br><br>(Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][89] in the living space in the night, around 8 PM.	 	             | **8 - 9 PM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation, Steam inhalation & Relaxing bedtime banana Kashaya</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][82]: Perform throat gargling with **a glass of warm water** with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt.** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][83] useful to [perform][84] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or [Jalaneti][85], with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.<br><br>2. [Steam inhalation][86]: (AYUSH) **Perform steam inhalation with water containing a few drops of eucalyptus oil, turmeric, mint leaves and / or Carom seeds / Ajwain. (Optional)** (Dr. SR) [Halin Drops][87] could be added to the water used for steaming.<br><br>3. [Banana Kashaaya][88] **for a more restful sleep:** Prepare the banana Kashaya by **boiling banana in water along with the peel.** Sip the banana Kashaaya and go to sleep.<br><br>(Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][89] in the living space in the night, around 8 PM.                    | **8 - 9 PM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation, Steam inhalation & Relaxing bedtime banana Kashaya</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][82]: Perform throat gargling with **a glass of warm water** with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt.** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][83] useful to [perform][84] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or [Jalaneti][85], with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.<br><br>2. [Steam inhalation][86]: (AYUSH) **Perform steam inhalation with water containing a few drops of eucalyptus oil, turmeric, mint leaves and / or Carom seeds / Ajwain. (Optional)** (Dr. SR) [Halin Drops][87] could be added to the water used for steaming.<br><br>3. (Dr. KV / Millet medicine) Preparation to make Foxtail millet / Thinai [Ambali][90] on Day 4:<br>Soak half a cup (or the required quantity) of Foxtail millet / Thinai for sprouting during the night.<br><br>4. [Banana Kashaaya][88] **for a more restful sleep:** Prepare the banana Kashaya by **boiling banana in water along with the peel.** Sip the banana Kashaaya and go to sleep.<br><br>(Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][89] in the living space in the night, around 8 PM.  |


## Diet: 4 to 6+ days

| DAY 4| DAY 5| DAY 6-21|		
|:--------|:-------|:-------|																			
| **<ins>The N.I.C.E. protocol for mild / acute Covid</ins>**<br><br>N.I.C.E. Three-Step Flu Diet<br>N.I.C.E. helpline for free consultations and guidance:<br>+91 8587059169	| **<ins>The N.I.C.E. protocol for mild / acute Covid</ins>**<br><br>N.I.C.E. Three-Step Flu Diet<br>N.I.C.E. helpline for free consultations and guidance:<br>+91 8587059169			| **<ins>The N.I.C.E. protocol for mild / acute Covid</ins>**<br><br>N.I.C.E. Three-Step Flu Diet<br>N.I.C.E. helpline for free consultations and guidance:<br>+91 8587059169			|
| | | |
| **<ins>Holistic techniques to reduce the discomfort of breathlessness:</ins>**<br><br>1. *(NICE)* A hand-held / table fan held in front of the patient's face for a few minutes<br><br>2. *(Integrative medicine)* Prone ventilation<br><br>3. *(Homeopathy)* **Q Aspidosperma, to be adopted after consultation with a homeopathic physician**<br><br>4. *(Ayurveda, Indigenous medicine)* Camphor + Ajwain + Eucalyptus oil Potli			| <ins>If there is insuffcient mitigation of the infection by Day 5, it is necessary to consult with one of the many competent practitioners of integrative or holistic medicine, who have experience in providing highly effective treatment of Covid-19.</ins> Here are the integrative therapies and a few names of physicians worldwide, offering telemedicine, known to have a negligible mortality rate in their treatment modalities:<br><br>- **NICE (Network of Influenza Care Experts) Helpline (+91 8587059169)**<br>- **Ozone therapy**<br>- **Chlorine Dioxide Solution therapy and Physicians supporting CDS therapy**<br>- **Haldi30 patented herbal extract and Physicians offering Haldi30 treatment**<br>- **Ayurvedic Physicians offering extremely efficacious treatment**<br>- Ayurvedic **Krishnapatnam treatment**<br>- **Homeopathic services from an acclaimed treatment and research center in Kolkatta, [Dr. Prasanta Bannerji Homeopathic Research Foundation (PBHRF)][91] (Home of the Bannerji Protocols (TM)):** Tel. / WhatsApp: +91 33 4005 0796 /  +91 33 4005 0809<br><br>- Allopathic early-stage treatment protocols using the most evidence-based interventions, and a few Physicians who might provide such therapy:<br>  - FLCCC's I-MASK+ Protocol,<br>  - The Zelenko Protocol,<br>- Dr. Thomas Borody's Triple Therapy: (GPs can email GP@CDD.com.au to obtain the dosing protocol and COVID-19 treatment information for their patients.)<br>- [The Ippocrate Protocol and telemedicine service][92]<br>- Protocol based on The Fleming Method (aka FMTVDM-Directed Covid-19 Treatment Protocol),<br>- Covid Healer from Italy, Dr. Andrea Stramezzi: (WhatsApp to +39 351 5407910)<br>- Dr. Shankara Chetty, South Africa, 8th Day Therapy: (WhatsApp to +27 846102030)<br>- [Covid 19 Doctors' Directory][93]<br>- [Telemedicine Doctors for Covid-19 Script][94]<br>- [Find a doctor who will prescribe Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquine and early outpatient treatments for COVID-19 (USA)][95] (Oct 17, 2021)<br>- [Find a doctor who will prescribe Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquine and early outpatient treatments for COVID-19 in various countries][96] (Oct 27, 2021)<br><br>**<ins>The naturopathic and millet-based anti-inflammatory diet, nutraceutical supplements, phototherapy, saline irrigation of nose and mouth and steam inhalation, Pranayama, Green chiretta decoction (Kapasura + Nilavembu Kudineer), AYUSH64, homeopathic medication, Nigella sativa therapy and turmeric-pepper tea</ins> may perhaps continue to be used as adjunct therapy or a baseline treatment approach in any therapeutic modality, after due consultation with the treating physician.**			| **If there was not remarkable improvement in symptoms, or mitigation, by Day 5, then it is time to promptly consult a physician offering one of the clinically proven, highly effective Covid-19 therapies (listed under Preliminary Notes, Day 5).**<br><br>**Subsequently, the baseline therapeutic dietary and other regimen described here should be discussed with and vetted by the consulting physician.**<br><br><ins>The naturopathic and millet-based anti-inflammatory diet, nutraceutical supplements, phototherapy, saline irrigation of nose and mouth and steam inhalation, Pranayama, Green chiretta decoction (Kapasura + Nilavembu Kudineer), AYUSH64, homeopathic medication, Nigella sativa therapy and turmeric-pepper tea may perhaps continue to be used as adjunct therapy or a baseline treatment approach in any therapeutic modality, after due consultation with the treating physician.</ins><br><br>**However, the herbal medications may need to be replaced by the new therapy, after consideration.** |
| | | |	
| **At or before 5:30 AM**<br><br>*(Homeopathy)* Dr. Khadar Vali's generic homeopathic regimen for boosting immune response with Arsenicum album 200, Bryonia alba 200, Camphor 200 for symptomatic infections (**N.B.:** *The Homeopathic protocol should only be adopted under the guidance of an experienced and knowledgeable physician.*):<br><br>**<ins>Schedule and dosage:</ins>**<br>Take 3 pills of Ars alb 200 C in half a cup of water. If there have been respiratory symptoms and a high fever, also have 3 pills each of Bryonia alba 200 and Camphor 200 along with the Arsenicum album 200. For children, the dosage would be proportionately smaller, say 1-2 pills each, depending on age and weight.<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>**<br>1. Homeopathic medication must be consumed as far as possible **away from meals (i.e., at least half an hour, and preferably 1 hour, before a main meal).**<br><br>2. Of the 3 medications used in Dr. Khadar Vali's treatment regimen, **Bryonia alba 200 C** is especially indicated when **respiratory symptoms** are present and is used also to effectively treat pneumonia, and **Camphor 200 C** is recommended when **fever** is a prominent symptom of the infection. **Arsenicum album 30 C** and **200 C** have been widely used with remarkable and demonstrable efficacy by the alternate healthcare community in Kerala in both prophylaxing against Covid-19 as well as the treatment of early symptoms.	                    	| **At or before 5:30 AM**<br>*(Homeopathy)* Dr. Khadar Vali's generic homeopathic regimen for boosting immune response with Arsenicum album 200, Bryonia alba 200, Camphor 200 for symptomatic infections (**N.B.:** *The Homeopathic protocol should only be adopted under the guidance of an experienced and knowledgeable physician.*):<br><br>**<ins>Schedule and dosage:</ins>**<br>Take 3 pills of Ars alb 200 C in half a cup of water. If there have been respiratory symptoms and a high fever, also have 3 pills each of Bryonia alba 200 and Camphor 200 along with the Arsenicum album 200. For children, the dosage would be proportionately smaller, say 1-2 pills each, depending on age and weight.<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>**<br>1. Homeopathic medication must be consumed as far as possible **away from meals (i.e., at least half an hour, and preferably 1 hour, before a main meal).**<br><br>2. Of the 3 medications used in Dr. Khadar Vali's treatment regimen, **Bryonia alba 200 C** is especially indicated when **respiratory symptoms** are present and is used also to effectively treat pneumonia, and **Camphor 200 C** is recommended when **fever** is a prominent symptom of the infection. **Arsenicum album 30 C** and **200 C** have been widely used with remarkable and demonstrable efficacy by the alternate healthcare community in Kerala in both prophylaxing against Covid-19 as well as the treatment of early symptoms.                         | **At or before 5:30 AM:**<br>*(Homeopathy)* Dr. Khadar Vali's generic homeopathic regimen for boosting immune response with Arsenicum album 200, Bryonia alba 200, Camphor 200 for symptomatic infections (**N.B.:** *The Homeopathic protocol should only be adopted under the guidance of an experienced and knowledgeable physician.*):<br><br>**<ins>Schedule and dosage:</ins>**<br>Take 3 pills of Ars alb 200 C in half a cup of water. If there have been respiratory symptoms and a high fever, also have 3 pills each of Bryonia alba 200 and Camphor 200 along with the Arsenicum album 200. For children, the dosage would be proportionately smaller, say 1-2 pills each, depending on age and weight.<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>**<br>1. Homeopathic medication must be consumed as far as possible **away from meals (i.e., at least half an hour, and preferably 1 hour, before a main meal).**<br><br>2. Of the 3 medications used in Dr. Khadar Vali's treatment regimen, **Bryonia alba 200 C** is especially indicated when **respiratory symptoms** are present and is used also to effectively treat pneumonia, and **Camphor 200 C** is recommended when **fever** is a prominent symptom of the infection. **Arsenicum album 30 C** and **200 C** have been widely used with remarkable and demonstrable efficacy by the alternate healthcare community in Kerala in both prophylaxing against Covid-19 as well as the treatment of early symptoms.|
| | | |
| **About 6:00 AM:**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation & Sunbathing</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][97]: Perform throat gargling with a glass of warm water with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt. (Optional)** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][98] useful to [perform][99] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or [Jalaneti][100], **with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.**<br><br>2. **Start sunbathing** (with minimal / [light, preferably white-coloured cotton attire][101]) and sungazing (no more than 20 seconds at a stretch).	         	| **About 6:00 AM:**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation & Sunbathing</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][97]: Perform throat gargling with a glass of warm water with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt. (Optional)** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][98] useful to [perform][99] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or [Jalaneti][100], **with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.**<br><br>2. **Start sunbathing** (with minimal / [light, preferably white-coloured cotton attire][101]) and sungazing (no more than 20 seconds at a stretch).                      | **About 6:00 AM:**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation & Sunbathing</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][97]: Perform throat gargling with a glass of warm water with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt. (Optional)** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][98] useful to [perform][99] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or [Jalaneti][100], **with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.**<br><br>2. **Start sunbathing** (with minimal / [light, preferably white-coloured cotton attire][101]) and sungazing (no more than 20 seconds at a stretch).|	
| | | |
| **6:15 - 6:30 AM:**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Early morning regimen to mitigate infection and inflammation in upper respiratory tract- Sniffing powdered dry ginger, Alternate breathing & Turmeric-pepper decoction:</ins><br><br>1. **Sniff one pinch each of dried ginger** / Chukku / Saunth alternately in each nostril.<br>2. After 10 minutes, perform **Anuloma Viloma Praanayaama for 5 minutes.**<br>3. After the completion of Praanayaama, consume **turmeric-pepper Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction)**: Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of turmeric and 2 pinches of black pepper in a glass of water for 5 minutes. Cover and let the decoction cool. Add jaggery and 1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil, and sip it.<br><br>(Optional) (AYUSH) [<ins>Anu taila</ins>][102] ([Nasya][103]):<br><br>Put **4 drops of Patanjali's Anu taila or even simple organic sesame or coconut oil or pure cow's ghee in each nostril.** This is performed at least an hour before the next meal.                          | **6:15 - 6:30 AM:**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Early morning regimen to mitigate infection and inflammation in upper respiratory tract- Sniffing powdered dry ginger, Alternate breathing & Turmeric-pepper decoction:</ins><br><br>1. **Sniff one pinch each of dried ginger** / Chukku / Saunth alternately in each nostril.<br>2. After 10 minutes, perform **Anuloma Viloma Praanayaama for 5 minutes.**<br>3. After the completion of Praanayaama, consume **turmeric-pepper Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction)**: Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of turmeric and 2 pinches of black pepper in a glass of water for 5 minutes. Cover and let the decoction cool. Add jaggery and 1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil, and sip it.<br><br>(Optional) (AYUSH) [<ins>Anu taila</ins>][102] ([Nasya][103]):<br><br>Put **4 drops of Patanjali's Anu taila or even simple organic sesame or coconut oil or pure cow's ghee in each nostril.** This is performed at least an hour before the next meal.                            | **6:15 - 6:30 AM:**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Early morning regimen to mitigate infection and inflammation in upper respiratory tract- Sniffing powdered dry ginger, Alternate breathing & Turmeric-pepper decoction:</ins><br><br>1. **Sniff one pinch each of dried ginger** / Chukku / Saunth alternately in each nostril.<br>2. After 10 minutes, perform **Anuloma Viloma Praanayaama for 5 minutes.**<br>3. After the completion of Praanayaama, consume **turmeric-pepper Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction)**: Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of turmeric and 2 pinches of black pepper in a glass of water for 5 minutes. Cover and let the decoction cool. Add jaggery and 1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil, and sip it.<br>4. (Dr. KV / Millet medicine) Preparation for Positive millet (Foxtail / Thinai or Little / Saamai or Kodo / Varagu) [Ambali][104] as evening meal: Grind required quantity of the Foxtail millet / Thinai (that was left for soaking the previous night) for 2 seconds in a blender using the Whip mode. Then boil the broken grains in the same water in which they were soaked overnight, and further adding water equal to about twice the volume of grains, in an open mud pot, until the grains are cooked. After cooking, close the mud pot with a clean cotton cloth and leave to ferment for 8 hours, to be finished by evening. However, the Ambali will be ready for consumption by lunch time, around 2 - 2:30 PM.<br><br>(Optional) (AYUSH) [<ins>Anu taila</ins>][102] ([Nasya][103]):<br>Put **4 drops of Patanjali's Anu taila or even simple organic sesame or coconut oil or pure cow's ghee in each nostril.** This is performed at least an hour before the next meal.|
| | | |	
| **7:30 AM:**<br><br>If Peepal leaves can be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(NICE) **[<ins>Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves</ins>][105], only for patients with breathing difficulty**<br><br>Alternatively, if Peepal leaves cannot be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(Siddha) **<ins>Kadha or Kashaaya of [Nilavembu][106] / Kiratatikta / Chiretta + [Kapasura][107] (i.e., Kapasura / Nilavembu Kudineer):</ins>**<br><br>**Consume quarter to half a tumbler, for adults (or about 60 ml) of Kapasura + Nilavembu Kudineer**, prepared by boiling a teaspoon each of **[Nilavembu][108] and [Kapasura][109] herbal powders** (store-bought) in 2 tumblers of water and reduced (through boiling) to half a tumbler. The dosage for children would be proportionately lower, ranging from a teaspoon (about 5 ml) to a quarter glass (30 ml) for adolescents.                     | **7:30 AM**<br><br>If Peepal leaves can be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(NICE) **[<ins>Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves</ins>][105], only for patients with breathing difficulty**<br><br>Alternatively, if Peepal leaves cannot be sourced and prepared:<br>(Siddha) **<ins>Kadha or Kashaaya of [Nilavembu][106] / Kiratatikta / Chiretta + [Kapasura][107] (i.e., Kapasura / Nilavembu Kudineer):</ins>**<br><br>**Consume quarter to half a tumbler, for adults (or about 60 ml) of Kapasura + Nilavembu Kudineer**, prepared by boiling a teaspoon each of **[Nilavembu][108] and [Kapasura][109] herbal powders** (store-bought) in 2 tumblers of water and reduced (through boiling) to half a tumbler. The dosage for children would be proportionately lower, ranging from a teaspoon (about 5 ml) to a quarter glass (30 ml) for adolescents.                         | **7:30 AM**<br><br>If Peepal leaves can be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(NICE) **[<ins>Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves</ins>][105], only for patients with breathing difficulty**<br><br>Alternatively, if Peepal leaves cannot be sourced and prepared:<br><br>(Siddha) **<ins>Kadha or Kashaaya of [Nilavembu][106] / Kiratatikta / Chiretta + [Kapasura][107] (i.e., Kapasura / Nilavembu Kudineer):</ins>**<br><br>**Consume quarter to half a tumbler, for adults (or about 60 ml) of Kapasura + Nilavembu Kudineer**, prepared by boiling a teaspoon each of **[Nilavembu][108] and [Kapasura][109] herbal powders** (store-bought) in 2 tumblers of water and reduced (through boiling) to half a tumbler. The dosage for children would be proportionately lower, ranging from a teaspoon (about 5 ml) to a quarter glass (30 ml) for adolescents.|
| | | |
| **8:00 AM**<br><br>1. *(NICE)* **<ins>Anti-inflammatory [green juice][110] and Dr. Eapen Koshy's supplementary naturopathic alkalizing (anti-inflammatory) regimen:</ins>**<br><br>- **Green juice**, lukewarm or at room temperature, prepared from cucumber / ash gourd / bottle gourd / [plantain pith or stem][111] / [mint leaves][112] / [wheatgrass][113] / [Moringa leaves / corriander leaves][114], in rotation, and with [Amla][114], fresh lemon juice and a teaspoon of honey for taste. Naturopathy importantly utilizes this therapy to [counter systemic inflammation.][115]<br><br>- (Dr. EK) **Immune-supportive ("alkalizing") superfoods:**<br>Chew and eat a 1 cm long piece of **raw fresh ginger** along with the skin, and 2-3 **raw fresh Amla** / Indian gooseberries. The ginger and Amla can be dipped in [a little raw honey][116] to milden the taste, if needed. Raw peeled **garlic**, 1-2 cloves, and **raw slices of lemon**, along with the rind, too can be eaten to reduce inflammation and support immunity.<br><br>2. (Allopathy, Nutritional / Integrative medicine) **<ins>Nutraceuticals to support immunity:<ins>**<br><br>If the symptoms had reduced by Day 3, then continue to take a generic supplement like **[Immuneed][117] or [oral vitamin C + Zinc][118]** with lukewarm water.<br>- If symptoms had not been mitigated by Day 3, then continue the therapeutic supplements recommended in the early treatment prescribed by the Zelenko Protocol or FLCCC's I-MASK+ protocol:<br>**I-MASK+ Immune Fortifying / Supportive Therapy (with links to FLCCC-recommended products):**<br>- **Vitamin D3:** 1000–3000 IU / day. ([Amazon][119])<br>- **Vitamin C:** 500 - 1,000 mg BID (twice daily) ([Amazon][120]) ([OneDayMD][121])<br>- **Quercetin:** 250 mg daily.  ([Amazon][122]) ([Aesthetics Advisor][123])<br>- **Zinc:** 30 - 40 mg / day (elemental zinc). Zinc lozenges are preferred. ([Amazon][124]) ([OneDayMD][125])<br><br>Alternatively, the manufacturer "dose + immunity" offers a combined supplement called "[A dose of immunity][126]", a highly rated immune-supportive supplement on Amazon **containing all these components and Echinacea.**<br><br>3. (Dr. KV / Millet medicine) **Preparation for Foxtail millet / Thinai [Ambali][127] as evening meal:**<br>**Grind required quantity of the Foxtail millet / Thinai (that was left for soaking the previous night) for 2 seconds in a blender using the Whip mode. Then boil the broken grains in the same water in which they were soaked overnight, and further adding water equal to about twice the volume of grains, in an open mud pot, until the grains are cooked. After cooking, close the mud pot with a clean cotton cloth and leave to ferment for 8 hours, until evening.**		             | **8:00 AM**<br><br>1. *(NICE)* **<ins>Anti-inflammatory [green juice][110] and Dr. Eapen Koshy's supplementary naturopathic alkalizing (anti-inflammatory) regimen:</ins>**<br><br>- **Green juice**, lukewarm or at room temperature, prepared from cucumber / ash gourd / bottle gourd / [plantain pith or stem][111] / [mint leaves][112] / [wheatgrass][113] / [Moringa leaves / corriander leaves][114], in rotation, and with [Amla][114], fresh lemon juice and a teaspoon of honey for taste. Naturopathy importantly utilizes this therapy to [counter systemic inflammation.][115]<br><br>- (Dr. EK) **Immune-supportive ("alkalizing") superfoods:**<br>Chew and eat a 1 cm long piece of **raw fresh ginger** along with the skin, and 2-3 **raw fresh Amla** / Indian gooseberries. The ginger and Amla can be dipped in [a little raw honey][116] to milden the taste, if needed. Raw peeled **garlic**, 1-2 cloves, and **raw slices of lemon**, along with the rind, too can be eaten to reduce inflammation and support immunity.<br><br>2. (Allopathy, Nutritional / Integrative medicine) **<ins>Nutraceuticals to support immunity:</ins>**<br><br>- If the symptoms had reduced by Day 3, then continue to take a generic supplement like **[Immuneed][117] or [oral vitamin C + Zinc][118]** with lukewarm water.<br>- If symptoms had not been mitigated by Day 3, then continue the therapeutic supplements recommended in the early treatment prescribed by the Zelenko Protocol or FLCCC's I-MASK+ protocol:<br>**I-MASK+ Immune Fortifying / Supportive Therapy (with links to FLCCC-recommended products):**<br>- **Vitamin D3:** 1000–3000 IU / day. ([Amazon][119])<br>- **Vitamin C:** 500 - 1,000 mg BID (twice daily) ([Amazon][120]) ([OneDayMD][121])<br>- **Quercetin:** 250 mg daily.  ([Amazon][122]) ([Aesthetics Advisor][123])<br>- **Zinc:** 30 - 40 mg / day (elemental zinc). Zinc lozenges are preferred. ([Amazon][124]) ([OneDayMD][125])<br><br>Alternatively, the manufacturer "dose + immunity" offers a combined supplement called "[A dose of immunity][126]", a highly rated immune-supportive supplement on Amazon **containing all these components and Echinacea.**<br><br>3. (Dr. KV / Millet medicine) **Preparation for Foxtail millet / Thinai [Ambali][127] as evening meal:**<br>**Grind required quantity of the Foxtail millet / Thinai (that was left for soaking the previous night) for 2 seconds in a blender using the Whip mode. Then boil the broken grains in the same water in which they were soaked overnight, and further adding water equal to about twice the volume of grains, in an open mud pot, until the grains are cooked. After cooking, close the mud pot with a clean cotton cloth and leave to ferment for 8 hours, until evening.**                               | **8:00 AM**<br><br>1. *(NICE)* **<ins>Anti-inflammatory [green juice][110] and Dr. Eapen Koshy's supplementary naturopathic alkalizing (anti-inflammatory) regimen:</ins>**<br><br>- **Green juice**, lukewarm or at room temperature, prepared from cucumber / ash gourd / bottle gourd / [plantain pith or stem][111] / [mint leaves][112] / [wheatgrass][113] / [Moringa leaves / corriander leaves][114], in rotation, and with [Amla][114], fresh lemon juice and a teaspoon of honey for taste. Naturopathy importantly utilizes this therapy to [counter systemic inflammation.][115]<br><br>- (Dr. EK) **Immune-supportive ("alkalizing") superfoods:**<br>Chew and eat a 1 cm long piece of **raw fresh ginger** along with the skin, and 2-3 **raw fresh Amla** / Indian gooseberries. The ginger and Amla can be dipped in [a little raw honey][116] to milden the taste, if needed. Raw peeled **garlic**, 1-2 cloves, and **raw slices of lemon**, along with the rind, too can be eaten to reduce inflammation and support immunity.<br><br>2. (Allopathy, Nutritional / Integrative medicine) **<ins>Nutraceuticals to support immunity:</ins>**<br><br>- If the symptoms have fully subsided, then continue to take a generic supplement like **[Immuneed][117] or [oral vitamin C + Zinc][118]** with lukewarm water.<br><br>- If the symptoms have not fully subsided, then continue the therapeutic supplements recommended in the early treatment prescribed by the Zelenko Protocol or FLCCC's I-MASK+ protocol:<br>**I-MASK+ Immune Fortifying / Supportive Therapy (with links to FLCCC-recommended products):**<br>- **Vitamin D3:** 1000–3000 IU / day. ([Amazon][119])<br>- **Vitamin C:** 500 - 1,000 mg BID (twice daily) ([Amazon][120]) ([OneDayMD][121])<br>- **Quercetin:** 250 mg daily.  ([Amazon][122]) ([Aesthetics Advisor][123])<br>- **Zinc:** 30 - 40 mg / day (elemental zinc). Zinc lozenges are preferred. ([Amazon][124]) ([OneDayMD][125])<br><br>Alternatively, the manufacturer "dose + immunity" offers a combined supplement called "[A dose of immunity][126]", a highly rated immune-supportive supplement on Amazon **containing all these components and Echinacea.**<br><br>3. (Dr. KV / Millet medicine) **Preparation for Foxtail millet / Thinai [Ambali][127] as evening meal:**<br>**Grind required quantity of the Foxtail millet / Thinai (that was left for soaking the previous night) for 2 seconds in a blender using the Whip mode. Then boil the broken grains in the same water in which they were soaked overnight, and further adding water equal to about twice the volume of grains, in an open mud pot, until the grains are cooked. After cooking, close the mud pot with a clean cotton cloth and leave to ferment for 8 hours, until evening.**|	
| | | |
| **9:00 AM**<br><br>1. (NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][128]<br><br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water.**<br><br>2. (Integrative medicine, Naturopathy) If symptoms had not begun to mitigate by Day 3, continue the effective and evidence-based Nigella sativa therapy:<br>**Take 1 g / [kg of body weight] of honey and 80 mg / [kg of body weight] of Nigella sativa. The honey is first dissolved in 1 large cup or 250 mL of warm water.**<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>** A tablespoon of honey weighs approximately 21 g. A metric teaspoon of Black cumin seeds weighs about 5 g. **Therefore an adult weighing 60 kg would need to consume about 3 tablespoons of honey dissolved in a large cup of water, and about 1 metric teaspoon of Nigella sativa in this dose.**<br><br>3. **Can stop sunbathing**, which was begun at 6:00 AM, at the end of the 3-hour phototherapy duration.<br><br>4. (Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][129] in the living space in the morning.             		        | **9:00 AM**<br><br>1. (NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][128]<br><br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water.**<br><br>2. (Integrative medicine, Naturopathy) If symptoms had not begun to mitigate by Day 3, continue the effective and evidence-based Nigella sativa therapy:<br>**Take 1 g / [kg of body weight] of honey and 80 mg / [kg of body weight] of Nigella sativa. The honey is first dissolved in 1 large cup or 250 mL of warm water.**<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>** A tablespoon of honey weighs approximately 21 g. A metric teaspoon of Black cumin seeds weighs about 5 g. **Therefore an adult weighing 60 kg would need to consume about 3 tablespoons of honey dissolved in a large cup of water, and about 1 metric teaspoon of Nigella sativa in this dose.**<br><br>3. **Can stop sunbathing**, which was begun at 6:00 AM, at the end of the 3-hour phototherapy duration.<br><br>4. (Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][129] in the living space in the morning.                         | **9:00 AM**<br><br>1. (NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water:</ins>][128]<br><br>2. (Integrative medicine, Naturopathy) If symptoms have not fully subsided, continue the effective and evidence-based Nigella sativa therapy:<br>**Take 1 g / [kg of body weight] of honey and 80 mg / [kg of body weight] of Nigella sativa. The honey is first dissolved in 1 large cup or 250 mL of warm water.**<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>** A tablespoon of honey weighs approximately 21 g. A metric teaspoon of Black cumin seeds weighs about 5 g. **Therefore an adult weighing 60 kg would need to consume about 3 tablespoons of honey dissolved in a large cup of water, and about 1 metric teaspoon of Nigella sativa in this dose.**<br><br>3. **Can stop sunbathing**, which was begun at 6:00 AM, at the end of the 3-hour phototherapy duration.<br><br>4. (Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][129] in the living space in the morning.|
| | | |	
| **9:30 AM**<br><br>If fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya can be sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya or Kadha:</ins>**<br><br>Take Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), prepared as follows:<br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced and prepared,<br><br>(<ins>Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of **Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Swasari with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour before fruitarian breakfast. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**              	| **9:30 AM**<br><br>If fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya can be sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya or Kadha:</ins>**<br><br>Take Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), prepared as follows:<br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced and prepared,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of **Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Swasari with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour before fruitarian breakfast. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**	                   | **9:30 AM**<br><br>If fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya can be sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya or Kadha:</ins>**<br><br>Take Kadha or Kashaaya (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), prepared as follows:<br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced and prepared,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of **Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Swasari with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour before fruitarian breakfast. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.	|
| | | |	
| **10:30 AM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water</ins>][130]:<br><br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. (body weight in kg) / 40 glasses**	                      | **10:30 AM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water</ins>][130]:<br><br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. (body weight in kg) / 40 glasses**                    | **10:30 AM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water</ins>][130] |
| | | |
| **11:30 AM - 12:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- If asymptomatic, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br>- If symptomatic, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q:**<br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice<br><br>Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br><br>**Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Coronil with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour after the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**	                      | **11:30 AM - 12:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- If asymptomatic, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br><br>- If symptomatic, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q:**<br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice<br><br>Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Coronil with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour after the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**                                 | **11:30 AM - 12:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Fruit / Citrus juice:</ins>**<br><br>- If asymptomatic, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **or a plate of seasonal fruits**<br><br>- If symptomatic, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**<br><br>Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted,<br><br><ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>Take 2 tablets (for adults, 15+ years) of Divya Coronil with lukewarm water on an empty stomach, half an hour after the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.	|	
| | | |
| **12:15 - 12:30 PM**<br><br>(NICE) Keep **1/4 teaspoonful of fresh or dry ginger (Chukku or Saunth) in the mouth**, let it dissolve there, and then swallow.<br><br>(AYUSH) In addition, if symptoms had not decreased by Day 3, one 500 mg tablet of AYUSH64 can continue to be taken.		        	| **12:15 - 12:30 PM**<br><br>(NICE) Keep **1/4 teaspoonful of fresh or dry ginger (Chukku or Saunth) in the mouth**, let it dissolve there, and then swallow.<br><br>(AYUSH) In addition, if symptoms had not decreased by Day 3, one 500 mg tablet of AYUSH64 can continue to be taken.	               | **12:15 - 12:30 PM**<br><br>(NICE) Keep **1/4 teaspoonful of fresh or dry ginger (Chukku or Saunth) in the mouth**, let it dissolve there, and then swallow.<br><br>(AYUSH) In addition, especially if symptoms have not fully subsided and recovery phase begun, one 500 mg tablet of AYUSH64 can continue to be taken. |
| | | |	
| **1:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Consume **Turmeric-Pepper Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction):</ins><br><br>**Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of Turmeric and [2 pinches of Black pepper][131] in a glass of water for 5 minutes.** Cover and let the decoction cool. Add **jaggery** and [1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil][132], and sip it.	               | **1:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Consume **Turmeric-Pepper Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction):</ins><br><br>**Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of Turmeric and [2 pinches of Black pepper][131] in a glass of water for 5 minutes.** Cover and let the decoction cool. Add **jaggery** and [1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil][132], and sip it.	                 | **1:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Consume **Turmeric-Pepper Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction):</ins><br><br>**Boil 0.5 - 1 teaspoonful of Turmeric and [2 pinches of Black pepper][131] in a glass of water for 5 minutes.** Cover and let the decoction cool. Add **jaggery** and [1/2 teaspoonful of ghee or oil][132], and sip it.<br><br>*(Naturopathy)* <ins>Alternatively, if Symptoms have subsided,</ins><br>any anti-inflammatory tea, and especially Pine needle tea (containing Suramin that is reported to neutralize the spike glycoprotein debris after the infectious phase) or Prof. Dileep Kumar's (AIARD) recommended herbal Kashaaya (only if there are residual symptoms of infection), or Ayush Kwath Churna Kashaaya, can be consumed. **However, it would be wise to consult with a knowledgeable physician before choosing to consume any variety of herbal decoction regularly, especially with respect to interactions with any other drugs being taken.** |
| | | |	
| **2:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water</ins>][133]:<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses** 	            | **2:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water</ins>][133]:<br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses**           | **2:00 PM**<br><br>(NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water</ins>][133] |
| | | |
| **2:30 - 3:30 PM**<br><br>**@ 3:00 PM** (NICE)<br><br>If there is no significant decrease of symptoms by the 3rd day, take Fruit / Citrus juice:<br><br>- If asymptomatic, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br>- If symptomatic, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q:**<br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice<br><br>Otherwise, if there is significant decrease of symptoms by the 3rd day, take cucumber + tomato salad in the quantity Q:<br><br>**Q = [Body weight (in kg)] X 5 grams of cucumber and tomatoes**<br><br>For example, if the body weight is 60 kg, then (60 X 5 =) 300 grams of cucumber and tomatoes should be consumed. In many cases, patients may start feeling better and their fever improved, and they would have regained some strength.<br><br>Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted instead,<br><br>**@ 2:30 PM & 3:30 PM** <ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing **a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets of Divya Swasari (for adults, 15+ years) with lukewarm water, half an hour before (@ 2:30 PM) and 2 tablets of Divya Coronil after (@ 3:30 PM) the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**			         | **2:30 - 3:30 PM**<br><br>**@ 3:00 PM** (NICE)<br><br>If there is no significant decrease of symptoms by the 3rd day, take Fruit / Citrus juice:<br><br>- If asymptomatic, take **plain fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)**, of any seasonal fruits, **in the quantity Q, defined below.**<br>- If symptomatic, take **plain citrus fruit juice (unsweetened and lukewarm)** in the following **quantity Q:**<br><br>**Q = one-third of (Body weight (in kg) / 10) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice**<br>i.e.,  (Body weight (in kg) / 30) glasses of fresh citrus fruit juice<br><br>Otherwise, if there is significant decrease of symptoms by the 3rd day, take cucumber + tomato salad in the quantity Q:<br><br>**Q = [Body weight (in kg)] X 5 grams of cucumber and tomatoes**<br><br>For example, if the body weight is 60 kg, then (60 X 5 =) 300 grams of cucumber and tomatoes should be consumed. In many cases, patients may start feeling better and their fever improved, and they would have regained some strength.<br><br>Additionally, if fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted instead,<br><br>**@ 2:30 PM & 3:30 PM** <ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, **Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy** is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing **a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.**<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>**Take 2 tablets of Divya Swasari (for adults, 15+ years) with lukewarm water, half an hour before (@ 2:30 PM) and 2 tablets of Divya Coronil after (@ 3:30 PM) the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.**	                   | **2:30 - 3:30 PM**<br><br>**@ 3:00 PM** (NICE)<br>1. **Take a plate of cucumber + tomato salad in the quantity Q:**<br><br>**Q = [Body weight (in kg)] X 5 grams of cucumber and tomatoes**<br><br>For example, if the body weight is 60 kg, then (60 X 5 =) 300 grams of cucumber and tomatoes should be consumed. In many cases, patients may start feeling better and their fever improved, and they would have regained some strength.<br><br>2. (DIP) **Subsequently, have a small or moderate quantity of [Ambali][134], prepared in the early morning and left to ferment, in a second plate.**<br><br>Additionally, if Symptomatic and fresh leaf Giloy + Tulasi Kashaya could not be sourced / prepared and the Patanjali Coronil therapy has been adopted instead,<br><br>**@ 2:30 PM & 3:30 PM** <ins>(Patanjali) Divya Swasari Vati & Coronil:</ins><br>Fresh leaf decoctions or Kashayas are most potent and highly effective. However, if fresh Giloy and Tulasi leaves cannot be obtained, Patanjali's Divya Coronil Kit therapy is a certified and evidence-based therapeutic formulation containing a mixture of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi in 2:1:1 ratio.<br><br>**<ins>Dosage & Schedule:</ins>**<br>Take 2 tablets of Divya Swasari (for adults, 15+ years) with lukewarm water, half an hour before (@ 2:30 PM) and 2 tablets of Divya Coronil after (@ 3:30 PM) the fruit / citrus juice. For children 6 - 15 years, the dosage is halved.|	
| | | |
| **4:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Giloy and Tulasi can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya or Kadha:</ins>**<br><br>**Take Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), **prepared as follows:**<br><br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled for 5 minutes in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br>**<ins>Alternatively to the fresh Giloy + Tulasi Kadha / Kashaaya, Patanjali's Coronil therapy can be adopted, comprising two preparations of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi, consumed half an hour before and after the main meals, as described next to meals regimen.</ins>**<br><br>(AYUSH) In addition, if symptoms had not decreased by Day 3, one 500 mg tablet of AYUSH64 can continue to be taken.		      	| **4:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Giloy and Tulasi can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya or Kadha:</ins>**<br><br>**Take Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), **prepared as follows:**<br><br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled for 5 minutes in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br>**<ins>Alternatively to the fresh Giloy + Tulasi Kadha / Kashaaya, Patanjali's Coronil therapy can be adopted, comprising two preparations of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi, consumed half an hour before and after the main meals, as described next to meals regimen.</ins>**<br><br>(AYUSH) In addition, if symptoms had not decreased by Day 3, one 500 mg tablet of AYUSH64 can continue to be taken.	              | **4:00 PM**<br><br>If Symptomatic, AND if fresh leaves of Giloy and Tulasi can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Giloy + Tulasi Kashaaya or Kadha:</ins>**<br><br>**Take Kadha or Kashaaya** (Ayurvedic bitter concoction), **prepared as follows:**<br><br>**3-4 leaves or 4-inch stem of Giloy, and 15-20 Tulasi leaves are boiled for 5 minutes in a suitable small quantity of water.**<br><br>**<ins>Alternatively to the fresh Giloy + Tulasi Kadha / Kashaaya, AND if Symptomatic, Patanjali's Coronil therapy can be adopted, comprising two preparations of Giloy, Ashwagandha and Tulasi, consumed half an hour before and after the main meals, as described next to meals regimen.</ins>**<br><br>(AYUSH) In addition, if symptoms have not fully subsided and in recovery phase, one 500 mg tablet of AYUSH64 can continue to be taken.			|
| | | |	
| **4:30 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Madaar / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Massage with Madaar / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea leaves and Mustard oil for cough symptom:</ins>**<br><br>Pieces of Madaar / Aak / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis Gigantea / Crown flower **leaves dipped in mustard oil should be heated till they become lukewarm and to be used for a light massage on chest, back and feet.** The treatment should be **continued until the cough symptom subsides.**<br><br><ins>Alternatively, if the leaves of Erukku / Madaar could not be locally sourced / prepared,</ins><br><br>[(Ayurveda, Naturopathy)][135] **<ins>Mustard and Camphor oil massage for asthma and cough:</ins>**<br><br>Massage the entire chest region gently with a little [warm mustard oil, heated with powdered edible camphor][136], to reduce cough symptom.	             		| **4:30 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Madaar / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Massage with Madaar / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea leaves and Mustard oil for cough symptom:</ins>**<br><br>Pieces of Madaar / Aak / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis Gigantea / Crown flower **leaves dipped in mustard oil should be heated till they become lukewarm and to be used for a light massage on chest, back and feet.** The treatment should be **continued until the cough symptom subsides.**<br><br><ins>Alternatively, if the leaves of Erukku / Madaar could not be locally sourced / prepared,</ins><br><br>[(Ayurveda, Naturopathy)][135] **<ins>Mustard and Camphor oil massage for asthma and cough:</ins>**<br><br>Massage the entire chest region gently with a little [warm mustard oil, heated with powdered edible camphor][136], to reduce cough symptom.                	| **4:30 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Madaar / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Massage with Madaar / Erukku / Calotropis gigantea leaves and Mustard oil for cough symptom:</ins>**<br><br>Pieces of Madaar / Aak / Arka / Erukku / Calotropis Gigantea / Crown flower **leaves dipped in mustard oil should be heated till they become lukewarm and to be used for a light massage on chest, back and feet.** The treatment should be **continued until the cough symptom subsides.**<br><br><ins>Alternatively, if the leaves of Erukku / Madaar could not be locally sourced / prepared,</ins><br><br>[(Ayurveda, Naturopathy)][135] **<ins>Mustard and Camphor oil massage for asthma and cough:</ins>**<br><br>Massage the entire chest region gently with a little [warm mustard oil, heated with powdered edible camphor][136], to reduce cough symptom.	|
| | | |	
| **5:00 PM**<br><br>1. (NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water</ins>][137]:<br><br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses**<br><br>2. **(Integrative medicine, Naturopathy) If symptoms had not begun to mitigate by Day 3, continue the effective and evidence-based Nigella sativa therapy:**<br>**Take 1 g / [kg of body weight] of honey and 80 mg / [kg of body weight] of Nigella sativa. The honey is first dissolved in 1 large cup or 250 mL of warm water.**<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>** A tablespoon of honey weighs approximately 21 g. A metric teaspoon of Black cumin seeds weighs about 5 g. **Therefore an adult weighing 60 kg would need to consume about 3 tablespoons of honey dissolved in a large cup of water, and about 1 metric teaspoon of Nigella sativa in this dose.**	                        		| **5:00 PM**<br><br>1. (NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water</ins>][137]:<br><br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses**<br><br>2. **(Integrative medicine, Naturopathy) If symptoms had not begun to mitigate by Day 3, continue the effective and evidence-based Nigella sativa therapy:**<br>**Take 1 g / [kg of body weight] of honey and 80 mg / [kg of body weight] of Nigella sativa. The honey is first dissolved in 1 large cup or 250 mL of warm water.**<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>** A tablespoon of honey weighs approximately 21 g. A metric teaspoon of Black cumin seeds weighs about 5 g. **Therefore an adult weighing 60 kg would need to consume about 3 tablespoons of honey dissolved in a large cup of water, and about 1 metric teaspoon of Nigella sativa in this dose.**                                | **5:00 PM**<br><br>1. (NICE) [<ins>Fresh tender coconut water</ins>][137]:<br><br>The quantity of coconut water to be consumed is one-fourth of the total quantity prescribed for the day, i.e., **take [(body weight in kg / 10) / 4] glasses of coconut water, i.e. [(body weight in kg) / 40] glasses**<br><br>2. **(Integrative medicine, Naturopathy) If symptoms had not begun to mitigate by Day 3, continue the effective and evidence-based Nigella sativa therapy:**<br>**Take 1 g / [kg of body weight] of honey and 80 mg / [kg of body weight] of Nigella sativa. The honey is first dissolved in 1 large cup or 250 mL of warm water.**<br><br>**<ins>Note:</ins>** A tablespoon of honey weighs approximately 21 g. A metric teaspoon of Black cumin seeds weighs about 5 g. **Therefore an adult weighing 60 kg would need to consume about 3 tablespoons of honey dissolved in a large cup of water, and about 1 metric teaspoon of Nigella sativa in this dose.** |
| | | |
| **6:00 PM**<br><br>*(NICE, Dr. KV)* **<ins>Salad + Foxtail millet [Ambali][138]:</ins>**<br><br>Take a plate of cucumber + tomato salad, followed by a small bowl of the Foxtail millet / Thinai Ambali (that was prepared earlier), adding minimal unrefined salt (rock salt or black salt) to taste.<br><br>If there is not sufficient decrease of infection and symptoms by this day:<br><br>*(FLCCC's I-MASK+, Zelenko, Fareed-Tyson Protocols)* **<ins>Ivermectin:</ins>**<br><br>**Take 0.4 - 0.5 mg / [kg of body weight], with the higher dosage being preferred in case of greaterviral load or severity of symptoms. Therefore a patient weighing 60 kg would take between 24 mg and 30 mg, depending on the severity of their symptoms on this day.**	            	| **6:00 PM**<br><br>*(NICE, Dr. KV)* **<ins>Salad + Foxtail millet [Ambali][138]:</ins>**<br><br>Take a plate of cucumber + tomato salad, followed by a small bowl of the Foxtail millet / Thinai Ambali (that was prepared earlier), adding minimal unrefined salt (rock salt or black salt) to taste.<br><br>If there is not sufficient decrease of infection and symptoms by this day:<br><br>*(FLCCC's I-MASK+, Zelenko, Fareed-Tyson Protocols)* **<ins>Ivermectin:</ins>**<br><br>**Take 0.4 - 0.5 mg / [kg of body weight], with the higher dosage being preferred in case of greaterviral load or severity of symptoms. Therefore a patient weighing 60 kg would take between 24 mg and 30 mg, depending on the severity of their symptoms on this day.**|                 **6:00 PM**<br><br>*(NICE, Dr. KV)* **<ins>Salad + Foxtail millet [Ambali][138]:</ins>**<br><br>Take a plate of cucumber + tomato salad, followed by a small bowl of the Foxtail millet / Thinai Ambali (that was prepared earlier), adding minimal unrefined salt (rock salt or black salt) to taste.<br><br>In addition, Only if Symptoms have not fully subsided and in recovery phase:<br><br>*(FLCCC's I-MASK+, Zelenko, Fareed-Tyson Protocols)* **<ins>Ivermectin:</ins>**<br><br>**Take 0.4 - 0.5 mg / [kg of body weight], with the higher dosage being preferred in case of greaterviral load or severity of symptoms. Therefore a patient weighing 60 kg would take between 24 mg and 30 mg, depending on the severity of their symptoms on this day.** |	
| | | |
| **7:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda can be locally sourced and prepared, AND especially if there is respiratory involvement or hypoxia:<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut juice:</ins>**<br><br>**3-4 tender leaves of Adusa (Justicia Adhatoda), a small cut piece of ginger** (not more than 1 cm in length), and **5 leaves of Tulasi manually crushed and juice mixed with 3 drops of honey**<br><br>**Pregnant and lactating mothers, young children and diabetics are advised to consult an Ayurvedic physician before consuming this medicine.**<br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda cannot be locally sourced and prepared, AND if there are respiratory symptoms:<br><br>(AYUSH, Ayurveda) **[Vasavaleha][139], recommended to be taken after consultation with Ayurvedic physician:**<br>**10 g of Vasavaleha can be consumed with warm water,** [preferably on the advice of an Ayurvedic physician.][140] [Overdosage should be avoided, and pregnant and lactating women, young children and diabetics are advised to consult with a physician about consuming this medication. Diabetics can have Vasavaleha only if their diabetes is under control.][141]		                   	| **7:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda can be locally sourced and prepared, AND especially if there is respiratory involvement or hypoxia:<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut juice:</ins>**<br><br>**3-4 tender leaves of Adusa (Justicia Adhatoda), a small cut piece of ginger** (not more than 1 cm in length), and **5 leaves of Tulasi manually crushed and juice mixed with 3 drops of honey**<br><br>**Pregnant and lactating mothers, young children and diabetics are advised to consult an Ayurvedic physician before consuming this medicine.**<br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda cannot be locally sourced and prepared, AND if there are respiratory symptoms:<br><br>(AYUSH, Ayurveda) **[Vasavaleha][139], recommended to be taken after consultation with Ayurvedic physician:**<br>**10 g of Vasavaleha can be consumed with warm water,** [preferably on the advice of an Ayurvedic physician.][140] [Overdosage should be avoided, and pregnant and lactating women, young children and diabetics are advised to consult with a physician about consuming this medication. Diabetics can have Vasavaleha only if their diabetes is under control.][141]                           | **7:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda can be locally sourced and prepared, AND especially if there is respiratory involvement or hypoxia:<br><br>(NICE) **<ins>Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut juice:</ins>**<br><br>**3-4 tender leaves of Adusa (Justicia Adhatoda), a small cut piece of ginger** (not more than 1 cm in length), and **5 leaves of Tulasi manually crushed and juice mixed with 3 drops of honey**<br><br>**Pregnant and lactating mothers, young children and diabetics are advised to consult an Ayurvedic physician before consuming this medicine.**<br><br>Alternatively, if fresh leaves of Adusa / Vasa / Malabar nut / Adalodakam / Justicia Adhatoda cannot be locally sourced and prepared, AND if there are respiratory symptoms:<br><br>(AYUSH, Ayurveda) **[Vasavaleha][139], recommended to be taken after consultation with Ayurvedic physician:**<br>**10 g of Vasavaleha can be consumed with warm water,** [preferably on the advice of an Ayurvedic physician.][140] [Overdosage should be avoided, and pregnant and lactating women, young children and diabetics are advised to consult with a physician about consuming this medication. Diabetics can have Vasavaleha only if their diabetes is under control.][141]|
| | | |	
| **8:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Peepal / Aswattha / Sacred fig / Arayaal / Arasamaram / Ficus religiosa can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>*(NICE)* **<ins>[Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves][142], only for patients with breathing difficulty:</ins>**<br><br>Boil **cut pieces of Peepal leaves in about a glass of water until the water is reduced to about half a glass. Filter** the water and drink. For severe breathing problems, use **Peepal bark** instead of leaves and repeat every hour.		                     | **8:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Peepal / Aswattha / Sacred fig / Arayaal / Arasamaram / Ficus religiosa can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>*(NICE)* **<ins>[Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves][142], only for patients with breathing difficulty:</ins>**<br><br>Boil **cut pieces of Peepal leaves in about a glass of water until the water is reduced to about half a glass. Filter** the water and drink. For severe breathing problems, use **Peepal bark** instead of leaves and repeat every hour.                     | **8:00 PM**<br><br>If fresh leaves of Peepal / Aswattha / Sacred fig / Arayaal / Arasamaram / Ficus religiosa can be locally sourced and prepared,<br><br>*(NICE)* **<ins>[Kadha / Kashaaya of Peepal leaves][142], only for patients with breathing difficulty:</ins>**<br><br>Boil **cut pieces of Peepal leaves in about a glass of water until the water is reduced to about half a glass. Filter** the water and drink. For severe breathing problems, use **Peepal bark** instead of leaves and repeat every hour.|	
| | | |
| **8 - 9 PM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation, Steam inhalation & Relaxing bedtime banana Kashaya</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][143]: Perform throat gargling with **a glass of warm water** with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt.** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][144] useful to [perform][145] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or [Jalaneti][146], with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.<br><br>2. [Steam inhalation][147]: (AYUSH) **Perform steam inhalation with water containing a few drops of eucalyptus oil, turmeric, mint leaves and / or Carom seeds / Ajwain. (Optional)** (Dr. SR) [Halin Drops][148] could be added to the water used for steaming.<br><br>3. **[Banana Kashaaya][149] for a more restful sleep:** Prepare the banana Kashaya by **boiling banana in water along with the peel.** Sip the banana Kashaaya and go to sleep.<br><br>4. (FLCCC's I-MASK+) [Melatonin][150]:<br><br>**Adult patients who suffer from insomnia and are unable to sleep deeply at night could consider to take Melatonin, 6 mg, before bedtime**, which is associated with a high improvement in treatment efficacy, of about 64 %, in a large number of large clinical trials.<br><br>5. (Dr. KV / Millet medicine) **Preparation to make Foxtail millet / Thinai [Ambali][151] on the following day:**<br>**Soak half a cup (or the required quantity) of Foxtail millet / Thinai for sprouting during the night.**<br><br>6. (Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][152] in the living space in the night, around 8 PM.	                    	| **8 - 9 PM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation, Steam inhalation & Relaxing bedtime banana Kashaya</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][143]: Perform throat gargling with **a glass of warm water** with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt.** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][144] useful to [perform][145] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or [Jalaneti][146], with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.<br><br>2. [Steam inhalation][147]: (AYUSH) **Perform steam inhalation with water containing a few drops of eucalyptus oil, turmeric, mint leaves and / or Carom seeds / Ajwain. (Optional)** (Dr. SR) [Halin Drops][148] could be added to the water used for steaming.<br><br>3. **[Banana Kashaaya][149] for a more restful sleep:** Prepare the banana Kashaya by **boiling banana in water along with the peel.** Sip the banana Kashaaya and go to sleep.<br><br>4. (FLCCC's I-MASK+) [Melatonin][150]:<br>**Adult patients who suffer from insomnia and are unable to sleep deeply at night could consider to take Melatonin, 6 mg, before bedtime**, which is associated with a high improvement in treatment efficacy, of about 64 %, in a large number of large clinical trials.<br><br>5. *(Dr. KV / Millet medicine)* **Preparation to make [Ambali][151] from one of the healing millets (called "Positive millets") on the following day:**<br>**Soak a cup (or the required quantity) of Little millet / Saamai or Kodo millet / Varagu or Foxtail millet / Thinai for sprouting during the night.**<br><br>6. (Dr. SR) **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][152] in the living space in the night, around 8 PM.                           | **8 - 9 PM**<br><br>(NICE) <ins>Saline irrigation, Steam inhalation & Relaxing bedtime banana Kashaya</ins><br><br>1. [Saline throat and nasal irrigation][143]: Perform throat gargling with **a glass of warm water** with an added **1/4 teaspoon of turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt.** (AYUSH) **Yashtimadhu** and **Triphala choorna** could be added to the gargling water too. In addition, if comfortable with the process, it is [provenly][144] useful to [perform][145] the Ayurvedic and naturopathic practice of nasal wash or [Jalaneti][146], with isotonic (0.9 %) saline solution.<br><br>2. [Steam inhalation][147]: *(AYUSH)* **Perform steam inhalation with water containing a few drops of eucalyptus oil, turmeric, mint leaves and / or Carom seeds / Ajwain. (Optional)** (Dr. SR) [Halin Drops][148] could be added to the water used for steaming.<br><br>3. **[Banana Kashaaya][149] for a more restful sleep:** Prepare the banana Kashaya by **boiling banana in water along with the peel.** Sip the banana Kashaaya and go to sleep.<br><br>4. *(FLCCC's I-MASK+)* [Melatonin][150]:<br>**Adult patients who suffer from insomnia and are unable to sleep deeply at night could consider to take Melatonin, 6 mg, before bedtime**, which is associated with a high improvement in treatment efficacy, of about 64 %, in a large number of large clinical trials.<br><br>5. *(Dr. KV / Millet medicine)* **Preparation to make [Ambali][151] from one of the healing millets (called "Positive millets") on the following day:**<br>**Soak a cup (or the required quantity) of Little millet / Saamai or Kodo millet / Varagu or Foxtail millet / Thinai for sprouting during the night.**<br><br>6. *(Dr. SR)* **Ayurvedic disinfection of living environment through Dhoop to reduce airborne contagion**<br>Burn [Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam][152] in the living space in the night, around 8 PM. |	






[1]: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/343430286_Millet_Derived_Flavonoids_as_Potential_SARS-CoV-2_Main_Protease_Inhibitors_A_Computational_Approach
[2]: https://wellnessmunch.com/how-to-enjoy-millet-benefits-without-any-side-effects/
[3]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3982016/
[4]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5983567/
[5]: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/3799288/
[6]: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8295861/
[7]: https://draxe.com/nutrition/protease/
[8]: https://draxe.com/nutrition/antinutrients/
[9]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0023643899906059
[10]: https://healthymaster.in/blogs/how-eating-millets-can-boost-your-immunity-in-2021/
[11]: https://youtu.be/gOWeBjUfRjI
[12]: http://renalteam.org/
[13]: https://renalteam.org/en/renalteam-blog/kidney-friendly-fruits-and-vegetables/
[14]: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33721102/
[15]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S120197122030624X
[16]: https://fungi.com/blogs/articles/place-mushrooms-in-sunlight-to-get-your-vitamin-d
[17]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6213178/
[18]: https://www.cookinglight.com/news/depression-fighting-vitamin-d-uv-mushroom-technique#:~:text=He%20found%20that%20shiitake%20mushrooms,the%20vitamin%20had%20been%20preserved.
[19]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037851222030284X
[20]: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29480918/
[21]: https://c19early.com/
[22]: https://c19proxalutamide.com/
[23]: https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0237480
[24]: https://www.betadine.ca/nasal-spray/
[25]: https://c19ic.com/
[26]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4595062/
[27]: https://c19quercetin.com/
[28]: https://c19ns.com/
[29]: https://c19curcumin.com/
[30]: https://c19melatonin.com/
[31]: https://c19regn.com/
[32]: https://c19pvpi.com/
[33]: https://www.flemingmethod.com/best-available-published-evidence
[34]: https://www.aestheticsadvisor.com/2021/02/find-doctor-prescribe-hydroxychloroquine-ivermectin.html
[35]: https://www.onedaymd.com/2021/08/how-to-get-ivermectin-in-us-pharmacies.html
[36]: https://www.aestheticsadvisor.com/2021/06/find-doctor-ivermectin-global.html
[37]: https://www.karger.com/Article/FullText/517924
[38]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7528968/
[39]: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18209140/
[40]: http://www.elvisstudy.com/nasal-irrigation-and-gargling.html
[41]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7528968/
[42]: https://healthyeating.sfgate.com/can-vitamin-d-through-light-shirt-10178.html
[43]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7857981/
[44]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nasya
[45]: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/326127150_Ficus_religiosa_A_wholesome_medicinal_tree
[46]: https://www.ayurtimes.com/nilavembu-kudineer-nilavembu-kashayam/
[47]: https://jammi.in/blog/kabasura-kudineer-benefits-ingredients-and-side-effects/
[48]: https://ayushcare.in/products/impcops-nilavembu-kudineer-100gm-siddha?currency=INR&variant=33083503149191&utm_campaign=gs-2020-03-02&utm_source=google&utm_medium=smart_campaign&gclid=CjwKCAiA1aiMBhAUEiwACw25MWFeBLgBrkXWHPtQxGt_nf_lAqmCmctMDtcGYLVrZBpOZpVkJktHiBoCTEYQAvD_BwE
[49]: https://www.srisritattva.com/products/kabasura-kudineer-churnam-for-making-kadha-100g?variant=39938616918176&currency=INR&utm_medium=product_sync&utm_source=google&utm_content=sag_organic&utm_campaign=sag_organic&gclid=CjwKCAiA1aiMBhAUEiwACw25MT3HEu2MYqMAxA5OGcTuWlKEwjBmeSxH5qULvm-ioMfJqbJITdjVixoC_DUQAvD_BwE
[50]: https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/green-juice-benefits#downsides
[51]: https://journals.indexcopernicus.com/api/file/viewByFileId/746161.pdf
[52]: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/275944
[53]: https://innovareacademics.in/journals/index.php/ajpcr/article/view/41575
[54]: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/health-fitness/home-remedies/amla-moringa-shot-to-boost-immunity-amid-the-covid-pandemic/photostory/82307685.cms?picid=82307693
[55]: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/health-fitness/home-remedies/amla-moringa-shot-to-boost-immunity-amid-the-covid-pandemic/photostory/82307685.cms?picid=82307693
[56]: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27540481/
[57]: https://bee-health.extension.org/at-what-temperature-does-honey-have-to-be-heated-too-too-destroy-the-health-benefits-for-humans/#:~:text=Honey%20should%20not%20be%20heated%20rapidly%2C%20over%20direct%20heat.&text=Excessive%20heat%20can%20have%20detrimental,destroys%20invertase%2C%20an%20important%20enzyme.
[58]: https://healthvit.com/products/west-coast-immuneed-original-30-tablets
[59]: https://pharmeasy.in/health-care/products/fast-up-charge-vitamin-c-zinc-effervescent-tablets-with-natural-amla--orange-flavour-20-tablets--216382
[60]: https://invol.co/cl6eavj
[61]: https://invol.co/cl6eaw3
[62]: https://onedaymd.aestheticsadvisor.com/2020/04/vitamin-c-what-you-need-to-know.html
[63]: https://invol.co/cl6eawp
[64]: https://www.aestheticsadvisor.com/2021/01/best-quercetin-supplement.html
[65]: https://invol.co/cl6eaug
[66]: https://onedaymd.aestheticsadvisor.com/2021/03/zinc-citrate-vs-picolinate-gluconate-carnosine.html
[67]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08CBBHPTF/ref=sspa_dk_detail_0?smid=AO3BP91DN8YE0&spLa=ZW5jcnlwdGVkUXVhbGlmaWVyPUExWkdRV1hEUjJLNkRCJmVuY3J5cHRlZElkPUEwNTM3Mjk1Rk1WSVdaOUVLMkNGJmVuY3J5cHRlZEFkSWQ9QTA4NjA3MDYxSzBBMUo2UUNaSEQ5JndpZGdldE5hbWU9c3BfZGV0YWlsMiZhY3Rpb249Y2xpY2tSZWRpcmVjdCZkb05vdExvZ0NsaWNrPXRydWU&th=1
[68]: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318394
[69]: https://www.newindianexpress.com/states/kerala/2020/may/21/keralas-ayurvedic-fumigant-receives-national-attention-2145947.html
[70]: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318394
[71]: https://www.consumerlab.com/reviews/turmeric-curcumin-supplements-spice-review/turmeric/
[72]: https://www.consumerlab.com/reviews/turmeric-curcumin-supplements-spice-review/turmeric/
[73]: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318394
[74]: https://www.hindustantimes.com/brunch/natural-remedies-for-asthma/story-0UYHhq8QM3LrXc7H2IgmsJ.html
[75]: https://www.netmeds.com/health-library/post/medicines-and-mother-nature-can-help-combat-asthma
[76]: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318394
[77]: https://www.ayurmedinfo.com/2012/02/09/vasarishtam-uses-ingredients-dose-and-side-effects/
[78]: https://www.ayurmedinfo.com/2012/02/13/vasavaleha-uses-dose-side-effect-and-ingredients/
[79]: https://ayurcentralonline.com/en/blogs/105_vasarista-cough-cold-and-asthma-remedy.html
[80]: https://www.ayurmedinfo.com/2012/02/13/vasavaleha-uses-dose-side-effect-and-ingredients/
[81]: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/326127150_Ficus_religiosa_A_wholesome_medicinal_tree
[82]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7528968/
[83]: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18209140/
[84]: http://www.elvisstudy.com/nasal-irrigation-and-gargling.html
[85]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7528968/
[86]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210803321000312
[87]: https://www.ayurmedinfo.com/2012/08/10/halin-drops-benefits-how-to-use-ingredients-side-effects/
[88]: https://senchateabar.com/blogs/blog/banana-tea-for-sleep
[89]: https://www.newindianexpress.com/states/kerala/2020/may/21/keralas-ayurvedic-fumigant-receives-national-attention-2145947.html
[90]: https://youtu.be/gOWeBjUfRjI
[91]: https://pbhrfindia.org/
[92]: https://ippocrateorg.org/en/contacts/
[93]: https://www.exstnc.com/
[94]: https://principia-scientific.com/contacts-telemedicine-doctors-for-covid19-scripts/
[95]: https://www.aestheticsadvisor.com/2021/02/find-doctor-prescribe-hydroxychloroquine-ivermectin.html
[96]: https://www.aestheticsadvisor.com/2021/06/find-doctor-ivermectin-global.html
[97]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7528968/
[98]: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18209140/
[99]: http://www.elvisstudy.com/nasal-irrigation-and-gargling.html
[100]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7528968/
[101]: https://healthyeating.sfgate.com/can-vitamin-d-through-light-shirt-10178.html
[102]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7857981/
[103]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nasya
[104]: https://youtu.be/gOWeBjUfRjI
[105]: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/326127150_Ficus_religiosa_A_wholesome_medicinal_tree
[106]: https://www.ayurtimes.com/nilavembu-kudineer-nilavembu-kashayam/
[107]: https://jammi.in/blog/kabasura-kudineer-benefits-ingredients-and-side-effects/
[108]: https://ayushcare.in/products/impcops-nilavembu-kudineer-100gm-siddha?currency=INR&variant=33083503149191&utm_campaign=gs-2020-03-02&utm_source=google&utm_medium=smart_campaign&gclid=CjwKCAiA1aiMBhAUEiwACw25MWFeBLgBrkXWHPtQxGt_nf_lAqmCmctMDtcGYLVrZBpOZpVkJktHiBoCTEYQAvD_BwE
[109]: https://www.srisritattva.com/products/kabasura-kudineer-churnam-for-making-kadha-100g?variant=39938616918176&currency=INR&utm_medium=product_sync&utm_source=google&utm_content=sag_organic&utm_campaign=sag_organic&gclid=CjwKCAiA1aiMBhAUEiwACw25MT3HEu2MYqMAxA5OGcTuWlKEwjBmeSxH5qULvm-ioMfJqbJITdjVixoC_DUQAvD_BwE
[110]: https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/green-juice-benefits#downsides
[111]: https://journals.indexcopernicus.com/api/file/viewByFileId/746161.pdf
[112]: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/275944
[113]: https://innovareacademics.in/journals/index.php/ajpcr/article/view/41575
[114]: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/health-fitness/home-remedies/amla-moringa-shot-to-boost-immunity-amid-the-covid-pandemic/photostory/82307685.cms?picid=82307693
[115]: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27540481/
[116]: https://bee-health.extension.org/at-what-temperature-does-honey-have-to-be-heated-too-too-destroy-the-health-benefits-for-humans/#:~:text=Honey%20should%20not%20be%20heated%20rapidly%2C%20over%20direct%20heat.&text=Excessive%20heat%20can%20have%20detrimental,destroys%20invertase%2C%20an%20important%20enzyme.
[117]: https://healthvit.com/products/west-coast-immuneed-original-30-tablets
[118]: https://pharmeasy.in/health-care/products/fast-up-charge-vitamin-c-zinc-effervescent-tablets-with-natural-amla--orange-flavour-20-tablets--216382
[119]: https://invol.co/cl6eavj
[120]: https://invol.co/cl6eaw3
[121]: https://onedaymd.aestheticsadvisor.com/2020/04/vitamin-c-what-you-need-to-know.html
[122]: https://invol.co/cl6eawp
[123]: https://www.aestheticsadvisor.com/2021/01/best-quercetin-supplement.html
[124]: https://invol.co/cl6eaug
[125]: https://onedaymd.aestheticsadvisor.com/2021/03/zinc-citrate-vs-picolinate-gluconate-carnosine.html
[126]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08CBBHPTF/ref=sspa_dk_detail_0?smid=AO3BP91DN8YE0&spLa=ZW5jcnlwdGVkUXVhbGlmaWVyPUExWkdRV1hEUjJLNkRCJmVuY3J5cHRlZElkPUEwNTM3Mjk1Rk1WSVdaOUVLMkNGJmVuY3J5cHRlZEFkSWQ9QTA4NjA3MDYxSzBBMUo2UUNaSEQ5JndpZGdldE5hbWU9c3BfZGV0YWlsMiZhY3Rpb249Y2xpY2tSZWRpcmVjdCZkb05vdExvZ0NsaWNrPXRydWU&th=1
[127]: https://youtu.be/gOWeBjUfRjI
[128]: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318394
[129]: https://www.newindianexpress.com/states/kerala/2020/may/21/keralas-ayurvedic-fumigant-receives-national-attention-2145947.html
[130]: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318394
[131]: https://www.consumerlab.com/reviews/turmeric-curcumin-supplements-spice-review/turmeric/
[132]: https://www.consumerlab.com/reviews/turmeric-curcumin-supplements-spice-review/turmeric/
[133]: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318394
[134]: https://youtu.be/gOWeBjUfRjI
[135]: https://www.hindustantimes.com/brunch/natural-remedies-for-asthma/story-0UYHhq8QM3LrXc7H2IgmsJ.html
[136]: https://www.netmeds.com/health-library/post/medicines-and-mother-nature-can-help-combat-asthma
[137]: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318394
[138]: https://youtu.be/gOWeBjUfRjI
[139]: https://www.ayurmedinfo.com/2012/02/13/vasavaleha-uses-dose-side-effect-and-ingredients/
[140]: https://ayurcentralonline.com/en/blogs/105_vasarista-cough-cold-and-asthma-remedy.html 
[141]: https://www.ayurmedinfo.com/2012/02/13/vasavaleha-uses-dose-side-effect-and-ingredients/
[142]: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/326127150_Ficus_religiosa_A_wholesome_medicinal_tree
[143]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7528968/
[144]: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18209140/
[145]: http://www.elvisstudy.com/nasal-irrigation-and-gargling.html
[146]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7528968/
[147]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210803321000312
[148]: https://www.ayurmedinfo.com/2012/08/10/halin-drops-benefits-how-to-use-ingredients-side-effects/
[149]: https://senchateabar.com/blogs/blog/banana-tea-for-sleep
[150]: https://c19early.com/
[151]: https://youtu.be/gOWeBjUfRjI
[152]: https://www.newindianexpress.com/states/kerala/2020/may/21/keralas-ayurvedic-fumigant-receives-national-attention-2145947.html											
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													
													